When US President Donald Trump rolled out the red carpet for Chinese leader Xi Jinping at Andrews Air Force Base on Wednesday evening, it was a rare diplomatic gesture that has only happened a handful of times in US history.

Generally, world leaders are received by the president at the White House. Xi's VIP reception underlines the importance Trump places on his personal rapport with China's most powerful leader in a generation.

After 90 minutes of bilateral talks in the Oval Office, Trump spent Thursday afternoon showing his "good friend" Xi his various White House construction projects, including the helipad completed just days earlier over the South Lawn. He then welcomed Xi aboard the presidential helicopter Marine One for a brief tour.

Trump then told reporters "we had a great meeting," adding that Xi "loves good granite."

The optics continued at a glitzy state dinner Thursday night, where Trump said he and President Xi have "never gotten along better" and lauded building a "relationship that promotes prosperity and security for future generations."

Judging from Xi's mannerisms, it isn't clear the Chinese leader shares Trump's enthusiasm for personal diplomacy. When Trump arrived in Beijing for a summit in May, Xi sent diplomatic envoy, Vice President Han Zheng, to meet the US president.

"Trump's 'personalized diplomacy' is a one-sided construct — one that exists mainly in his own mind. He may believe his personal rapport with Xi is the key factor shaping Sino-American relations, but there's little to no evidence backing that claim," said Aurelio Insisa, senior analyst at the Berlin-based Mercator Institute for China Studies, or MERICS.

Xi's whirlwind visit to the US, his first in 10 years, has been heavy on pomp but relatively low on substance.

As of Friday morning, most summit coverage has focused on what was for dinner and the tech CEO guest list, in lieu of any deliverables on thorny issues like trade deals or cooperation on artificial intelligence. There is still time for announcements when Xi departs Washington later Friday after visiting the National Archives with Trump.

"The summit did signal a temporary detente, even if concrete deliverables on issues such as AI regulation and trade tensions remained limited. For either government to take steps that would rupture the truce, approval would likely be required at the highest political level, namely from the two presidents," Dominic Chiu, senior analyst for China and Northeast Asia at the political risk consultancy Eurasia Group, told DW.

"The summit's optics therefore matter. By meeting publicly and emphasizing stability, both leaders have raised the political cost of actions that could rapidly destabilize the relationship," he added.

The most-pressing issue remains managing a trade war launched by Trump's scattershot tariffs in April 2025 that at one point were so high they essentially amounted to an embargo on Chinese goods.

On Wednesday, US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said a trade truce due to expire in November would be extended until January "to give us more time to see what we can do on the economic front." Such an extension had been widely expected before the summit.

The trade truce builds on the "Busan deal" Trump and Xi agreed on at a meeting in South Korea last October, where Trump backed off on more tariffs in exchange for Xi easing export control for rare earths, which are critical ingredients for building high-tech products like smartphones.

Leveraging China's chokehold on rare earths to confront Trump's tariff blitz represented a major victory for Xi.

The Financial Times reported earlier this week that the US "believes China has not fully lived up to its commitment of uninterrupted supply," adding that China's shipments of rare earths to the US have dropped recently, amid concerns China could again "choke supplies."

To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

On tariffs and trade, Trump made nebulous comments on Thursday about "progress," but no specific deals on sectors or goods have yet been reported as of Friday morning. Reports ahead of the summit of an expected $30 billion in two-way tariff cuts have also yet to be proven.

Melanie Hart, director of Global China Hub at the Atlantic Council, wrote in a briefing earlier this week that the tariff cut announcement has been "so widely expected that if it is derailed, it will indicate something has gone horribly wrong."

Eurasia Group analyst Chiu said the trade truce "buys time for both countries to advance strategic decoupling in national-security-sensitive sectors, including leading-edge technologies and rare earths."

"However, neither side is likely to decouple sufficiently in the next several years to eliminate the economic damage each could impose through supply-chain leverage. These mutual choke points should in turn reinforce incentives for a relatively stable and managed relationship ov