Student leaders, activists detained for Jantar Mantar protest against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Son of SC judge who heard election commissioner appointment act case is EC lawyer

Podcast: How a Jain merchant family navigated business, from Mughal India to modern Ahmedabad

Review: Karthik Subbaraj’s ‘Dorothy’ has to be seen to be believed

Why Australia has tightened visa, immigration rules for foreign students

Assembly polls: BJP spent more in Bengal than Congress did in four states, one UT

Delhi history: How Sanjay Gandhi’s ‘beautification’ drive cost the Congress its goodwill

CJP to start nationwide protest if CEC Gyanesh Kumar does not resign in 48 hours

Wendell Berry spent his life farming, writing. His legacy is an ethic of care for the natural world

The allegations of Israel having committed a genocide in Gaza is the “greatest lie of the century”, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at the United Nations General Assembly on Thursday.

Netanyahu quoted urban warfare expert United States Colonel John Spencer (retired) as having said that Israel “has done more to prevent civilian casualties in war than any other military in history”.

The Israeli military had taken “innumerable steps to protect” civilians, Netanyahu claimed. “Is this genocide?” he asked. “Of course not. It’s the opposite of genocide.”

Netanyahu’s claims contradict growing consensus among international organisations, governments and human rights bodies that the Israeli military’s actions in the besieged Palestinian territory amount to a genocide.

Israel has carried out unprecedented air and ground strikes on Gaza, leaving more than 73,900 persons dead. The Israeli military’s offensive in Gaza had begun in October 2023 after the Palestinian militant group Hamas killed 1,200 persons during its incursion into southern Israel and took hostages.

While heavy fighting has largely paused since October 2025 following a ceasefire between Tel Aviv and Hamas, much of Gaza remains under Israeli military control.

In September 2025, the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry said that Israel committed genocide against Palestinians in Gaza. Israel’s foreign ministry had rejected the report, describing it as “distorted and false”.

In June, the commission said that the Israeli military had deliberately targeted and killed Palestinian children to commit a genocide. The Israeli forces have killed more than 20,000 children and injured 44,000 since October 2023, the panel said.

In its report, the panel included the killing of five-year-old Hind Rajab as an example of the genocidal acts.

On August 19, the Israeli military admitted that its soldiers had opened fire on a vehicle with Rajab and six family members on board in Gaza in January 2024, saying that it had ordered a criminal investigation into their killings.

The International Criminal Court had in November 2024 issued an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, accusing him of committing war crimes in Gaza.