On September 23, fighting escalated dramatically in Ethiopia's Tigray region. Tigrayan forces seized three local airports and the conflict spread into the neighboring regions of Afar and Amhara, according to reports.

Both sides have accused the other of starting the escalation. The renewed fighting poses a major challenge to the 2022 Pretoria peace agreement that ended the previous Tigray war.

This is where Eritrea becomes crucial. Martin Plaut, a British journalist specializing in the Horn of Africa, noted that the US needs Eritrea in the struggle to secure the Red Sea against the Houthis, an Iran-backed Shiite Muslim militia.

Plaut argues that removing sanctions gives new political weight to one of Africa's most repressive regimes.

As fighting resumes in Tigray, Eritrea could once again become a decisive military player. Plaut said the current tensions had the potential of developing into a broader regional confrontation, which, he said, "is the most serious danger."

In his view, the administration of US President Donald Trump has already made a strategic calculation. "Trump has now mended fences with Eritrea and has lifted sanctions against Eritrea" in an effort to reduce the threat posed by the Houthis and secure the Red Sea, said Plaut.

The escalation in Tigray came only days after Washington removed key Eritrean entities and individuals from its sanctions list.

On September 18, the United States allowed the national emergency underpinning its Ethiopia-related sanctions regime to expire. The Treasury Department subsequently removed a number of Eritrean individuals and entities from its sanctions list, including senior financial official Hagos Ghebrehiwet and the Red Sea Trading Corporation. The measures had originally been imposed in 2021 in connection with the Tigray war.

US officials have not described the move as an endorsement of Eritrea, nor has Washington publicly said that it struck a deal with Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki. But it removes a layer of pressure on a government whose strategic importance has grown as security around the Red Sea deteriorates.

For Abdurahman Sayed, director of the Horn of Africa Centre for Regional Integration and a political analyst, the wider geopolitical context is crucial.

"It is happening at a time when the war on Iran is ongoing," he told DW. "The Strait of Hormuz has been blocked for some time, and now the Bab el-Mandeb on the Red Sea, where Eritrea is located — this may give Eritrea some advantage to establish a meaningful relationship with the US."

Eritrea controls a long coastline opposite Yemen. Its southern port of Assab lies close to the Bab el-Mandeb Strait, one of the world's most important maritime waterways.

Moses Okello, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies in Addis Ababa, said the regional context has fundamentally changed since the previous Tigray war.

"In 2020, the concern was the TPLF [Tigray People's Liberation Front] versus the Ethiopian National Defense Force [ENDF]," he told DW. "Today, the entire Middle East is up in flames, and now the tensions in the Red Sea. So this changes the strategic value of not just the Eritrean coast, but the entire Red Sea waterway."

To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

For Washington, cooperation — or at least non-hostility — from Eritrea can therefore be strategically valuable.

Eritrea is one of the world's most authoritarian states, with no national elections since independence in 1993 and an extensive system of indefinite national service. Eritrean forces also fought alongside Ethiopian federal troops during the 2020-22 Tigray war.

And the economic impact of lifting sanctions may be more limited than the political symbolism suggests. "Lifting the sanctions may not make a huge difference on the ground," said Sayed. "Eritrea is not a trade hub [nor does it have] a well-established trading relationship with the outside world. It's actually a closed country."

On September 21, seven Ethiopian armed and political groups announced an alliance aimed at removing Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's government. The coalition includes the TPLF, the Amhara Fano National Movement and the Oromo Liberation Army. Some members were on opposing sides during the 2020-22 Tigray war.

It remains unclear how closely the alliance's members will coordinate militarily. The alliance brings together groups with very different histories that share opposition to the federal government.

Two days later, fighting escalated in Tigray. Tigrayan forces seized airports and fighting spread into neighboring regions. The TPLF has said federal forces attacked first; Addis Ababa has said the TPLF launched the offensive.

The renewed fighting has raised questions about the durability of the 2022 Pretoria agreement.

During the previous Tigray war, Eritrean forces fought alongside Ethiopian federal troops. But relations between Afwerki and Abiy