The independent senator David Pocock says the recent AI agent breach raises serious questions about Australia’s approach to artificial intelligence regulation.

Speaking on the ABC’s Afternoon Briefing, Pocock said the incident demonstrated the need for the government to introduce an AI safety act.

double quotation markThis is not a new problem. For many years now experts have been saying we need action on this. The crossbench has been pushing them. The government then said, ‘we’ll have some guardrails, we’ll put them on a website’ … that’s not enough. Clearly it’s not. This is a huge challenge facing us.

Anthony Albanese has called the first reported artificial intelligence agent hack into an Australian government website a “wake-up call” of the dangers of the technology.

James Paterson has questioned the timing of the prime minister’s announcement about the hack, saying he believed Albanese had chosen to make the announcement at the UN summit in New York, as part of his effort to stand up to “big tech” on AI. The PM has denied the suggestion and called it “nonsense”.

Staying on the PM’s US trip, Albanese detailed Australia’s bid for a temporary seat on the UN security council for 2029 to 2030.

Australia’s gen Z are the generation most willing to cut their spending way back to afford a home, according to new Cotality data.

An investigation is under way after a police officer was killed in a crash in Sydney’s inner west. The commissioner has paid tribute to the young female cop.

Renters in New South Wales will only need to provide their driver’s licences and passports if they are about to sign a lease, instead of including them in every rental application, under new laws.

The independent senator David Pocock says the recent AI agent breach raises serious questions about Australia’s approach to artificial intelligence regulation.

Speaking on the ABC’s Afternoon Briefing, Pocock said the incident demonstrated the need for the government to introduce an AI safety act.

double quotation markThis is not a new problem. For many years now experts have been saying we need action on this. The crossbench has been pushing them. The government then said, ‘we’ll have some guardrails, we’ll put them on a website’ … that’s not enough. Clearly it’s not. This is a huge challenge facing us.

Qld parliamentary review of liability bill chooses not to hear from sexual abuse victims

A Queensland parliamentary committee reviewing a bill to overturn a ban on lawsuits by child sexual abuse victims against some employers has chosen not to hear from any victim-survivors.

The state Labor MP Meaghan Scanlon tabled the bill last year. It reverses a 2024 high court judgment ruling that the Catholic church was not legally responsible for the actions of a priest, because they were not a direct employee. The judgment also applies to all other employers.

Similar legislation has already passed parliaments in Victoria and the ACT.

The Queensland parliament’s justice, integrity and community safety committee held a single two-hour hearing into the bill this morning. The committee, which has a government chair, chose only to hear from lawyers.

Child abuse survivor Diane Carpenter said she was “devastated” not to be allowed to be heard by the inquiry and called for the bill to be passed.

double quotation markIf the bill is not passed, many adults who, as children, were abused in institutional care, will have no pathway to justice. Currently, we have two classes of victims: those who can access justice and those who can’t.

A new trial date has been set for a British musician and media personality accused of violently raping a fan in a hotel, after a jury was unable to reach a verdict, AAP reports.

Rapper Yung Filly, who is legally known as Andres Felipe Valencia Barrientos, faced trial in July over his 2024 encounter with a 20-year-old woman after a Perth nightclub gig.

The 31-year-old was found guilty of two assault offences and acquitted of three sexual penetration charges following an eight-day trial in Western Australia’s district court in July.

The jury was hung on three other sexual penetration counts and Barrientos is set to be retried for the charges.

He was not required to appear when the case returned to court on Friday and a fresh trial was listed for 2027.

The trial, beginning on 15 June in the same court, is expected to run for eight days.

Judge Linda Black previously permitted Barrientos to vary his bail so he could travel home to the UK while he awaits retrial. He is understood to have departed Perth in late August.

Should dogs be allowed in pubs? We asked Melbourne pet owners

With their poll numbers in the dog house, the Victorian Labor government is hoping something as universally loved as pooches will help them. Labor is promising to change the rules to allow people to bring their pups into pubs.

Our Victorian state correspondent, Benita Kolovos, hit the streets to find out what people thought of the idea