Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) Chief Raj Thackeray. File | Photo Credit: PTI

Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray on Friday (September 25, 2026) sought the scrapping of the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) process. He termed it a “new weapon in the hands of the Bharatiya Janata Party”.

“It has become evident how the Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP] leveraged individuals like Gyanesh Kumar to secure an endless grip on power,” Mr. Thackeray said in a post on social media platform X.

The demand comes amid the Opposition’s chorus seeking the removal of India’s Chief Election Commissioner, Gyanesh Kumar and the scrapping of SIR. This was after media reports of differences flagged by the two Election Commissioners.

Echoing the demand made by his cousin Uddhav Thackeray, Mr. Raj also sought elections on the ballot papers. He also supported the call given by several other opposition parties to seek unity of all the parties to fight against it.

“Observing the irregularities within the SIR and noting that even Election Commissioners are speaking out about them, only one conclusion remains: the entire SIR process must be scrapped. All opposition parties in the country need to unite for this cause. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena [MNS] demands the complete cancellation of the recent SIR exercise, an impartial inquiry into the irregularities, and a start the process anew,” Mr Thackeray said in his post.

Speaking to the media this week, Shiv Sena (UBT) chief Uddhav Thackeray had said that some States should have re-elections in light of the fresh allegations. He said that the opposition parties had been raising the issue of anomalies in the voters’ lists for some time.

Meanwhile, protests were held at several places in the country by Congress on Friday (September 25), seeking the resignation of Gyanesh Kumar.

Indian National Congress / Shiv Sena-Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray / Maharashtra Navnirman Sena / Special Intensive Revision of electoral rolls / Bharatiya Janata Party / Election Commission of India

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.