Student leaders, activists detained for Jantar Mantar protest against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Son of SC judge who heard election commissioner appointment act case is EC lawyer

Podcast: How a Jain merchant family navigated business, from Mughal India to modern Ahmedabad

Review: Karthik Subbaraj’s ‘Dorothy’ has to be seen to be believed

Why Australia has tightened visa, immigration rules for foreign students

Assembly polls: BJP spent more in Bengal than Congress did in four states, one UT

Delhi history: How Sanjay Gandhi’s ‘beautification’ drive cost the Congress its goodwill

CJP to start nationwide protest if CEC Gyanesh Kumar does not resign in 48 hours

Wendell Berry spent his life farming, writing. His legacy is an ethic of care for the natural world

Opposition leaders and legal observers have raised questions about alleged judicial impropriety by Supreme Court Justice Satish Chandra Sharma for hearing petitions regarding the constitutionality of a 2023 law that governs the appointment of members of the Election Commission, despite his son being the standing advocate for the poll panel in Madhya Pradesh.

It was not clear if the judge had disclosed this information to the petitioners against the 2023 Chief Election Commissioner and Other Election Commissioners Appointment, Conditions of Service and Term of Office Act before the hearing, Live Law reported on Friday.

On Wednesday, he had disagreed with Justice Dipankar Datta, who was part of the bench hearing the six petitions against the Act, when the latter held that the law “does not appear to ensure an independent selection process”.

The Act states that the head of the poll panel and the two other top members are to be appointed based on the recommendations of a selection committee comprising the prime minister, a Union Cabinet minister and the leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha.

The composition of the panel means that the government enjoys a 2:1 majority over the leader of the Opposition, if there is a difference of opinion.

Sharma on Wednesday also headed a bench that overturned an Allahabad High Court order directing Gautam Buddha Nagar District Magistrate Medha Roopam to pay Rs 5 lakh in compensation from her salary to 25-year-old Delhi University graduate Akriti Chaudhary, who had been detained under the National Security Act after the workers’ protest in Noida.

Roopam is the daughter of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar.

The matter was listed before Sharma’s bench, despite it not being assigned to handle preventive detention cases according to the Supreme Court roster, reported Live Law.

According to the Madhya Pradesh High Court’s website, Sharma’s son is the standing counsel for the Election Commission since 2024. He is also the standing counsel for the Central Board of Direct Taxes and the Income Tax Department since 2023.

Pointing this out, Saurav Das, a convenor of the Cockroach Janta Party political campaign, asked how a judge can be expected to deliver “impartial and fair” justice in politically sensitive cases when his family members “serve at the pleasure of the government”.

🚨IMPORTANT NEWS🚨Since Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar is in the news, I have some very important but sad news to share about a Supreme Court judge.Supreme Court judge Justice Satish Chandra Sharma. Just two months away from retirement.If you remember, the… pic.twitter.com/h6YRgYs14F

“...his son holds not one, not two, but four big, plum government counsel panels, including income tax department, GST [Goods and Services Tax], customs, and excise, and a Madhya Pradesh government lawyer panel,” Das wrote on X.

Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra alleged that it was due to Sharma’s son being the poll panel’s counsel that he had disagreed with Datta on the matter of the 2023 Act. “Judiciary is protector – cannot be predator.”

Hon’ble Chief Justice of India - Siddharth Sharma, son of Justice Sharma practices in Jabalpur, is empanelled by @ECISVEEP, has appeared for them. How can his father hear Gyanesh Kumar CEC’s case? How can he be put out of turn to give relief to CEC daughter? pic.twitter.com/gXRyfqm5aE