Explosives used to move a large rock and let more water flow to cool nuclear power plant

Meanwhile in Romania, the Romanian naval forces carried out a controlled explosion to divert a large volume of water to the Old Danube and the Cernavodă nuclear power plant to help with its cooling.

Some 180 kg of explosives were used today, Adevărul reported, to move a large rock restricting the flow of water.

Acting defence minister Radu Miruță hailed the operation as a success, saying it will help with cooling of the plant and water transport on the river.

Given the continuing extreme weather conditions, the Cernavodă plant may still have to temporarily suspend its operations at some point, but any extra day of its work is worth more than the cost of the explosion, he said.

Romanian naval forces carried out a controlled explosion to help redirect vital cooling water from the drought-hit Danube to the country’s last working nuclear ⁠reactor (11:00).

Carmakers Dacia and Ford have temporarily suspended their production in Romania until 19 August as the country faces energy crunch as a result of drought limiting its power generation capabilities (14:48).

The explosion comes days after Romania declared a nationwide state of emergency on Friday, with the peak of the current heatwave expected later this week (12:05).

Neighbouring Hungary ​said it may be able to eke out two more days of power from its only atomic plant (9:46), but low levels of water in the Danube also affected other countries in the region (16:38).

Greece remained on high alert over wildfires amid growing concerns about “one of the worst fire crises” in recent history (16:27).

Thousands of evacuees were allowed to return home in France after a devastating wildfire in the western part of the country (16:06).

The European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, said that more must be done to strengthen the EU’s external borders, as she praised Spain and Morroco’s response to last week’s events in Ceuta, and said lessons must be drawn to avoid further escalations with growing questions over Morocco’s role in the crisis (13:25, 13:59, 15:43).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

As Greece grapples with a succession of massive wildfires, Theodore Giannaros, a senior wildfire meteorologist at the National Observatory told AFP on Monday the country faced “one of the worst fire crises” in recent memory.

Hundreds of firefighters have been battling multiple blazes across Greece, which have claimed five lives over the past two weeks.

“I would say that it is definitely one of the worst fire crises I’ve seen in the past, maybe eight to 10 years.”

Over the weekend, Giannaros said the fires around Porto Germeno, about 70 kilometres (45 miles) by road northwest of Athens in the region of Viotia, were likely to be classified as a megafire.

From the deadly Mati wildfire in 2018 to the massive Evros blaze in 2023, Greece endured a succession of destructive fire disasters between 2018 and 2025, cementing the eastern Mediterranean’s status as one of Europe’s most vulnerable regions to wildfires, AFP noted.

Over in France, thousands of evacuees were allowed to return home and or to holiday accommodation after a massive wildfire remained contained, AP said.

More than 224,000 people had fled in what officials said was the country’s largest civilian evacuation outside wartime as the wildfire burned about 420 square kilometres (162 square miles), making it France’s largest wildfire on record.

Monday’s return includes Cap Ferret peninsula, a tourist hotspot along the Atlantic coast, and Le Porge, the municipality hardest hit by the fire, where 183 homes were destroyed, AP said.

We now got our hands on a copy of von der Leyen’s letter to Spanish PM Pedro Sánchez.

In the letter, she tells the much-criticised Spanish PM that she wanted to “commend [him] for the swift handling of the returns of those who entered Ceuta illegally from Morocco.”

“But Spanish and Moroccan authorities have managed this efficiently and effectively, successfully preventing illegal movement onwards to mainland Spain and Europe,” she said.

She also welcomed Madrid’s “further deterrent actions … to prevent further illegal arrivals, such as reinforced surveillance of the maritime border.”

Curiously, von der Leyen also went out of her way to praise Morocco, despite growing questions about its role in the border incident.

She said it is “an important strategic partner” in fighting irregular migration, and one that the EU wants to develop a “more structured” partnership with, which could include “border management early-warning systems.”

Despite harsh criticism facing Spain from a number of countries, von der Leyen also made it clear that in the commission’s view “we do have a robust system in place to safeguard Europe’s security and sovereignty.”

But in a careful