Karnataka Congress MLA resigns after DK Shivakumar announces first Cabinet expansion

‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

How Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’ can help readers understand the hidden costs of AI

Modi government boasted about the NEET re-exam. But students say it was full of glitches

Bye-polls: Jan Suraaj chief Prashant Kishor wins Bihar’s Bankipur seat

How scientist PM Bhargava made school curricula innovative to cultivate a scientific temper in India

Why the philosophical conversations in Mohammad Iqbal’s poetry are relevant to modern political life

Rush Hour: Brij Bhushan acquitted in sexual assault case, Prashant Kishor wins Bankipur and more

Lucknow: Six kanwariyas allegedly attack school van, smash windscreen

The toll in rain-related incidents in Kerala has risen to 15, PTI quoted Chief Minister VD Satheesan as saying on Monday.

While he did not specify the period in which the deaths took place, the state has been receiving heavy and incessant rainfall since Friday, triggering flash floods and landslides.

Satheesan said on Monday that seven persons were missing amid the rains. Of these, two persons each were missing from Kollam and Kannur, and one each in Malappuram, Idukki and Muvattupuzha.

Malappuram had reported four deaths, while three persons died in Kottayam district. Two deaths each were reported in Ernakulam and Kollam, and one person each died in Idukki, Muvattupuzha and Kannur.

The chief minister announced that the state government will provide Rs 10,000 in funeral expenses to the families of those who died. Persons returning home from relief camps would receive Rs 10,000 as an immediate measure.

Additionally, an ex gratia of Rs 8 lakh was announced for the families of those who died. A compensation of Rs 12 lakh will be given to those who lost their homes and land due to landslides. Rs 6 lakh will be provided for families to rebuild their homes, said Satheesan.

Standing with our people during monsoon calamities.The Keralam Government announces immediate financial aid & relief measures for those affected:🔵₹8 Lakh assistance for families of the deceased.🔵₹10,000 immediate aid for funeral expenses.🔵₹10,000 for families… pic.twitter.com/jSpaHmDxZB

As of 9 am on Monday, 11,018 persons had been displaced by the rains and flooding and 316 relief camps were functioning in the state, he said at a press conference.

Around 165 hectares of farmland had been damaged, affecting 3,596 farmers, ANI quoted Satheesan as saying.

The India Meteorological Department has warned of rain in all 14 districts of Kerala on Monday.

It has issued an orange alert, signalling a need to prepare for action, has been issued for 12 districts: Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Malappuram, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kottayam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta. Meanwhile, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram remain under a yellow alert, advising residents to stay aware

The toll in flood-related incidents in Assam rose to 85, the State Disaster Management Authority said on Monday.

The flood situation has improved since Sunday, with the number of affected persons falling to around 1.3 lakh from 1.9 lakh. The number of affected districts has also declined to five.

Since April 29, floods have affected 25 districts and impacted a total of 11.4 lakh persons in the state.

Flood Situation Update | Assam 02 August 2026 | During the Last 24 HoursFlood conditions continue to affect parts of Assam. Relief and response operations remain underway, with authorities working round the clock to assist affected communities & restore essential services. pic.twitter.com/aNdxeDpmP3