Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

The Manikandanchal causeway across the Pooyamkutty River near Kothamangalam was submerged on Monday morning after heavy rain. The water receded by afternoon, officials said. | Photo Credit: Special Arrangement

A total of 110 people remained in relief camps across the district on Monday (August 3) following heavy downpours over the past few days. The day passed without much rain-related trouble.

Eight camps remained active in the district—four in Muvattupuzha taluk and two each in Kunnathunad and Kothamangalam—while four had been closed. Those who have taken shelter in camps include 51 women, 40 men, and 19 children.

A cyclist wearing a raincoat rides through Kochi city on August 3. | Photo Credit: H. VIBHU

Though the district did not witness incessant rain on Monday, the authorities advised people residing along the Muvattupuzha and Thodupuzha rivers, as well as in low-lying areas, to remain alert as the water levels in the rivers remained above the warning marks.

Authorities said the water level at the Malankara dam had touched the red-alert mark of 41.30 metres in the evening as inflow from the catchment area remained heavy. Excess water had been discharged from the dam by gradually raising its shutters since Sunday night (August 2), they said.

Though a flood-like situation prevailed along the Pooyamkutty river in Kothamangalam following heavy rain on Sunday night, it eased later as weather conditions improved. The Manikandanchal causeway across the river, which serves as a critical link between interior tribal hamlets and villages such as Manikandanchal and Kallelimedu and the mainland, was submerged in the morning. However, the water receded by afternoon, officials said.

Higher Education Minister Roji M. John, who is in charge of the district, visited different wards of the Chellanam grama panchayat that had been severely affected by heavy rain and sea surge. Stating that the situation in the region required a permanent solution, the Minister said the government would shortly initiate steps to complete the construction of a seawall. Mr. John was accompanied by Kochi MLA Muhammed Shiyas.

All educational institutions in the district will remain closed on Tuesday (August 4) in view of the heavy rainfall the district has been receiving, according to a communication issued by the Ernakulam District Collector.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.