Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Rescue personnel evacuate residents from Kakkodi, Kozhikode, following heavy rain on August 3, 2026. | Photo Credit: K. RAGESH

Heavy rainfall continued to lash Kozhikode for the third consecutive day on Monday (August 3, 2026). Low-lying areas in many parts of the district are still under water and families were shifted to safer locations. A couple of instances of partial collapse of houses too were reported on the day.

The India Meteorological department has issued an orange alert forecasting very heavy rainfall accompanied by gusty winds on Tuesday (August 4, 2026). The district administration has declared a holiday for the second consecutive day for educational institutions in view of the incessant rain in the upland areas and coastal regions. However, exams scheduled earlier and online classes will go on as usual.

The house of K.K. Noushad of Kuyyalil Kattil in Velliparamba, Kozhikode, that collapsed in heavy rain. | Photo Credit: K Ragesh

As on Monday evening, 964 people belonging to 365 families are at present staying in 32 relief camps set up across the district. There are 376 men, 418 women, and 170 kids. The highest number of people are in Kozhikode taluk. As many as 701 people from 260 families have been put up at 15 camps. There are 165 people in Thamarassery taluk, 80 in Vadakara taluk, and 18 people in Koyilandy taluk.

Meanwhile, around 200 families were affected after many parts of Kannadikkal-Parambil Bazar area were inundated. This followed the rising of water levels in the Poonoor River. The residents were shifted to safer places after low-lying areas went under water. Power connection was switched off in the area. The IMD, which had issued a yellow alert predicting isolated heavy rainfall for Kozhikode district on Monday, had later revised it to an orange alert.

Autorickshaw driver Noushad and family from Velliparamba near the Government Medical College Hospital had a narrow escape in the early hours of Monday when his house partially collapsed in the heavy rain. A tragedy was averted when Mr. Noushad, his wife, and two children ran outside the house after hearing a big sound around 3 a.m. The kitchen, one of the washrooms, and work area were completely damaged. Some household utensils too were destroyed. Both Mr. Noushad and his wife were sleeping next to the kitchen, it is learnt.

Around 20 families have been shifted to a relief camp at Moozhikkal in Kozhikode. | Photo Credit: K. Ragesh

It was a similar experience for Ajayakumar of Nadakkavu in Kozhikode city when a wall inside his house collapsed on Sunday night. The incident happened when Mr. Ajayakumar, his wife, and kids were watching television. They have been shifted to another house at present.

Wells reportedly caved in at Odumbra and Chalappuram areas. Low-lying areas Mavoor are facing water-logging. People staying on the banks of the Kuttiyadi River have been asked to be on alert as two spillway gates of the Kakkayam Dam have been opened to safely discharge water.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.