How Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’ can help readers understand the hidden costs of AI

Modi government boasted about the NEET re-exam. But students say it was full of glitches

Rush Hour: Brij Bhushan acquitted in sexual assault case, Prashant Kishor wins Bankipur and more

No repeat of Sunali Khatun case, but action against undocumented immigrants to continue: Bengal CM

Delhi unrest: Police conduct can never be equated with that of a protesting crowd

Bye-polls: Jan Suraaj chief Prashant Kishor wins Bihar’s Bankipur seat

Karnataka Congress MLA resigns after DK Shivakumar announces first Cabinet expansion

How scientist PM Bhargava made school curricula innovative to cultivate a scientific temper in India

‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

A Delhi court on Monday acquitted former Bharatiya Janata Party MP and former Wrestling Federation of India chief Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh in a sexual harassment case filed against him by six women wrestlers, Bar and Bench reported.

Co-accused Vinod Tomar was also acquitted by Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Ashwini Panwar of Rouse Avenue Courts.

Commenting on the verdict, Singh said that the judgement was a matter of happiness for him and his supporters, ANI reported.

“On the first day, when my first statement came, I had said that if any verdict or any charge is proven, I will hang myself,” he was quoted as saying by the news agency. “Today, the court acquitted me with honour…Today is a happy day.”

#WATCH | Delhi | After being acquitted by Rouse Avenue Court in the women wrestlers alleged sexual harassment case, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh says, "... On the first day, when my first statement came, I had said that if any verdict or any charge is proven, I will hang myself.… https://t.co/6O1R8Hj3p5 pic.twitter.com/hR1nsDnfBz

In January 2023, several Indian wrestlers, including medallists Sakshi Malik, Bajrang Punia and Vinesh Phogat, launched a protest against Singh, accusing him of intimidation and sexual harassment.

Seven complainants, including a minor, accused the BJP leader of demanding sexual favours for professional help on at least two occasions, and also reported 15 incidents of alleged molestation and other forms of sexual harassment.

However, the former MP was later cleared with respect to allegations made by one of the women.

Singh was forced to step down from his post after the allegations.

The police had filed a 1,000-page chargesheet in the case in June 2023 after the Supreme Court’s intervention.

After the verdict on Monday, Vinesh Phogat said that the complainants were disappointed with the court’s decision and that they will appeal against the order.

“From the very beginning, the entire system, the government, and this establishment were all trying to protect Brij Bhushan,” Phogat alleged. “...We have not lost hope, and the wrestlers will continue their fight.”

Singh had been charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code pertaining to outraging a woman’s modesty, making sexually coloured remarks, stalking and criminal intimidation.

Tomar, a former assistant secretary of the wrestling federation, was charged with criminal intimidation for threatening one of the complainants.

In May 2025, a Delhi court accepted a closure report filed by the Delhi Police seeking to cancel a separate case against Singh under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The police had said that there was no “corroborative evidence” against Singh, and that the recommendation was made on the basis of statements of the girl and her father.