Israel’s foreign minister, Gideon Saar, earlier claimed that the UK was ‘systemically working against the state of Israel’

UK accuses Israeli ‘terrorists’ of ethnic cleansing in West Bank with government backing

Andy Burnham said Britain will “continue to act in support of our values” after his Government announced a raft of sanctions against Israel.

The Prime Minister said: “In an increasingly volatile world, Britain must be willing to lead. The British people expect it, as do our international partners, and I am determined my Government will continue to act in defence of our values.

“Today, we are bringing forward targeted measures aimed not at the Israeli people, but in support of the two-state solution – and the prospect of Israelis and Palestinians living side by side in peace.

“The suffering of the Palestinian people is a scar on the conscience of the world. Innocent Palestinians, including children, continue to be killed in Gaza. And there is still a humanitarian crisis, with far too little aid getting in”, Burnham said. “That’s why we are acting, and why Britain will continue to act in support of our values.”

Ed Miliband, the UK foreign secretary, said on Tuesday that the UK regards Israel’s occupation of the West Bank as illegal. Miliband described violent Jewish settler activity on the occupied Palestinian West Bank as “ethnic cleansing” carried out with the tacit backing of the Netanyahu government and announced sweeping UK sanctions on goods from illegal settlements.

Israel ordered the closure of the British consulate in occupied East Jerusalem in response. Israel’s foreign minister, Gideon Sa’ar, announced retaliatory measures including the closure of the consulate and entry bans on several UK MPs.

In his statement, Miliband said that Canada and France joined the UK in banning trade with illegal Israeli settlements today. But nine other European countries also said they are considering measures like this. All 12 countries issued a joint statement.

Andy Burnham said Britain will “continue to act in support of our values” after his Government announced a raft of sanctions against Israel. The Prime Minister said Britain was “bringing forward targeted measures aimed not at the Israeli people, but in support of the two-state solution” and called the suffering of Palestinians “a scar on the conscience of the world”.

Jeremy Corbyn headed the list of 12 Britons banned from Israel by the Israeli government following today’s illegal settlements trade ban. Eleven of them were MPs, and the other person, Fahad Ansari, runs an anti-Zionist legal group. Corbyn said it was “shocking” that Israel does not want the world to know what is happening in Palestine.

Israel’s foreign minister said he had a conversation with Kemi Badenoch this evening to thank her and the Conservative party for going against sanctions imposed by the UK government over settler violence. Tory leader Badenoch wrote an uncompromising attack on the government’s decision to ban trade with illegal Israeli settlements on the West Bank, in which she accused Labour of being antisemitic.

Dahlia Scheindlin, one of Israel’s leading political analysts, said Ed Miliband’s speech and new measures were unlikely to impact Israel’s October election results, because Israeli voters are more focused on domestic issues.

“I realise that for the UK this is a huge policy step forward, but for Israel there are so many other things going on today. It is landing on a day when the lists are closing [of parliamentary candidates for each party] and Haaretz has a bombshell exclusive about warnings Netanyahu got ahead of October 7th”, she said. “It also made headlines today and got a tough response from the FM but might not be as influential going forward as the combined sense of ongoing crises.

“Since October 7th Israeli has become much more inward looking and provincial, and generally the attitude to the rest of the world is just that ‘they all hate us’.

“If you are a Netanyahu supporter you might take this as evidence that they are against us because of anti-semitism, and if you are in the opposition camp you might take this as further evidence that the world is turning against us because of Netanyahu’s policies. But it’s hard to see how these policies change the breakdown of the electoral map.”

Israel’s foreign minister said he had a conversation with Kemi Badenoch this evening to thank her and the Conservative party for going against sanctions imposed by the UK government over settler violence.

Badenoch has written an uncompromising attack on the government’s decision to ban trade with illegal Israeli settlements on the West Bank. It is in the Jewish Chronicle and – echoing the argument made by Mike Huckabee (see 9.52am), but with slightly less inflammatory language – she accuses Labour of being antisemitic.

Gideon Saar posted on X that he had spoken to Conservative leader Badenoch and shadow foreign secretary Tom Tugendhat.

He said: “I thanked t