A building collapse in Delhi's Satya Niketan area that claimed seven lives has sent shockwaves across the nation, sparking renewed conversations about the living conditions in paying guest (PG) accommodations for students in the national capital. Amid the tragedy, a father who lost his son on Sunday has made an emotional appeal to fellow parents on Tuesday, urging them not to send their children to Delhi to pursue their studies.

The father of Arpit Jaj, a resident of Madhya Pradesh's Dewas, who was among the people who died in the collapse, made this appeal with folded hands as he bid a final farewell to his son, reported news agency PTI.

Also Read | Tehseen Poonawalla detained during candlelight vigil over Delhi's Satya Niketan deaths

Bhupendra Jaj, who runs a car taxi business in Dewas, told reporters, "I just want to tell all parents not to send their children to Delhi to study in the future. I am devastated. I was educating him despite facing many difficulties."

He said that one of Arpit's eyes was damaged in the accident and the family decided to donate his other eye to help a needy patient.

Arpit was a second-year BCom student at a Delhi college. His funeral procession was attended by his family, friends, teachers, and neighbours.

Also Read | Satya Niketan building owner Hariram Bansal, wife in judicial custody, FIR blames ‘illegal’ construction

The distraught father also reportedly claimed that he faced many difficulties in searching for his son after the PG accommodation building collapsed.

"We searched for Arpit from the collapsed building to hospitals, but no one was willing to tell us anything. Finally, with the help of a lawyer, we identified his body," he said.

Raising demands for a thorough investigation into the building collapse, Bhupendra Jaj urged strict action against those responsible.

Also Read | Delhi HC orders 'high-level' MCD inquiry into Satya Niketan building collapse

The decades-old building housing a boys' PG accommodation collapsed on Sunday afternoon, killing seven people and leaving several others injured.

Following the incident, police arrested the building owner, 81-year-old Hariram, his 75-year-old wife Urmila, and their 52-year-old son Mahesh.

Furthermore, a labour contractor was apprehended from Uttar Pradesh's Kasganj in connection with the collapse.

Delhi CMO, in a post on X (formerly Twitter), informed that on the instructions of chief minister Rekha Gupta, MCD was directed to demolish the dilapidated building adjoining the accident site in the interest of public safety.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More