HC summons journalist Sudhir Chaudhary for allegedly defamatory show during youth protests

How an anti-reservation movement mimicking the CJP is branding entitlement as reform

Eiffel Tower shut as staffers protest women being removed for Hindu group’s visit

Why an indigenous community in Arunachal blacklisted four researchers

‘Enough is enough’: Calcutta HC says it may bar more FIRs against Abhishek Banerjee

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Bombay HC refuses to quash defamation case against Rahul Gandhi for ‘choron ke sardar’ comment

‘Degrading demand’: French leaders on removal of Eiffel Tower women staffers for Hindu group’s visit

What Shrilal Shukla’s novel ‘Raag Darbari’ says about public administration, development, politics

Food history: How ‘curry’, the ‘antithesis’ of Japanese food, became that country’s favourite meal

The Delhi High Court on Monday said that responsibility for the building collapse in the national capital extends beyond the owners of the building, holding the city’s municipal corporation and Delhi University accountable as well, The Indian Express reported.

Chief Justice DK Upadhyaya referred to the “very, very pathetic situation” of hostel availability, and verbally remarked that there needed to be a mechanism for regulating paying guest accommodations. The court said that the university had failed to provide adequate housing facilities for students from outside Delhi, forcing them to rely on private paying guest accommodation.

While hearing a public interest litigation seeking an independent investigation into the collapse of the five-storey building in Delhi’s Satya Niketan area, the court described the incident as “most unfortunate”, PTI reported.

The building, which was being used as paying guest accommodation for students, collapsed on Sunday afternoon, killing seven persons, including five students. The police said that as per inquiries, the structure was 40 to 50 years old, and repair work was underway in the basement when the building caved in.

A bench comprising Upadhyaya and Justice Tejas Karia directed the Municipal Corporation of Delhi to examine the matter and find out whether the collapsed building had been constructed with the required permissions, The Indian Express reported.

“If it is found that it was without valid permission, the MCD shall fix the responsibility of the officer concerned for such lapse,” it said.

The court further directed the civic body to inspect all buildings being used as paying guest accommodations and hostels, and to submit a report within a week on whether they had the required permissions and complied with building rules, the newspaper reported.

“Please impress upon the government for providing the facility of a hostel to the students,” Upadhyaya told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union and Delhi governments. “PGs are not only very dangerous, they pose a threat to life and security of students.”

The bench directed the Delhi government, the municipal corporation, Delhi University as well as the police to file their replies within 10 days. The matter will be heard further on September 25.