A migrant walks along a rocky shoreline near the border with Morocco after swimming towards Spain's North African enclave of Ceuta on July 31, 2026. Jorge Guerrero/AFP via Getty Images hide caption

SEVILLE, Spain — When Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez stood in front of the media on Friday in Ceuta, the Spanish enclave bordering Morocco, he followed a routine that he has spent years perfecting: rally his supporters, then reclaim control of the narrative.

By Saturday morning, the Spanish government had declared the situation under control, with the army mobilized in the region and the installation of a 500-meter floating barrier off its border with Morocco.

Sánchez sent a letter to European counterparts calling some of them out for "attacking Spain."

But the damage was already done: images of tens of thousands of migrants crossing into Spanish territory from Morocco went around the world, eliciting comments from anti-immigration foreign leaders.

U.S. President Trump called the crossing of migrants into Ceuta a "catastrophe" and an "invasion," blaming what he called "weak" and "very liberal" laws in Spain. The U.S. State Department even posted on social media blaming the crisis on Sánchez's migration-friendly policies.

Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, said the crisis in Spain showed the "threat" irregular migration presents to European security and even temporarily suspended Italy's open-border Schengen agreement with Spain, reimposing border controls for air and sea for travelers coming from the country.

In Spain, Sánchez's political opponents also seized on the opportunity.

The far-right VOX party, which has increased its presence in the Spanish parliament in recent years on an anti-immigration platform, reacted to the incident by calling for the militarization of the border, and the immediate deportation of all migrants who crossed, including minors. The center-right opposition party Partido Popular also called on the government to declare a national emergency, close the borders, and mobilize the army.

The developments come at a challenging time for Sánchez, whose government has been consumed by the response to wildfires that have been devastating the country, including some of the largest on record.

Sánchez is a savvy media player. In crisis after crisis — from the COVID-19 pandemic and the deadly 2024 floods in Valencia to the country's blackout in 2025 and the present day wildfires — he has managed to survive attacks from political opponents and stay ahead of the narrative.

Spaniards even joke about his capacity to handle one crisis after another: "the only thing left is an alien invasion."

What started as a moderate increase in the number of border crossings at the Spanish territory of Ceuta turned into an open crisis on Thursday. Nearly 60,000 crossed the border in a matter of days. Authorities are reporting at least 67 people died, most of them drowned as they tried to swim around a breakwater that separates the two counties.

There have been previous attempts to cross the borders into Ceuta and Melilla — the other Spanish territory in the region — sometimes by charging it en masse. The last such episode in Ceuta took place in 2021, in what now is known as "the crisis of the minors," because it mostly involved children swimming to Ceuta.

Migrants attempting to cross into Ceuta often come from sub-Saharan African countries. And they might wait around these enclaves for months, even years, for the perfect opportunity to cross.

Migrants attempting to cross into Spain's North African enclave of Ceuta gather on a hilltop during clashes with Moroccan security forces near the town of Fnideq, on the Morocco-Spain border, on Friday. The European Union on July 31 scrambled to contain one of the largest migrant crises faced by the block in recent years, after tens of thousands of people poured into into Spain's North African Ceuta enclave in just days. ABDEL MAJID BZIOUAT/AFP via Getty Images hide caption

But there is something different about this latest instance: Most migrants were Moroccan, and critics allege Moroccan law enforcement were absent — even complicit — from the Moroccan side of the border at the most critical hours on Thursday, when thousands of migrants were freely crossing the border by foot, some of them women and kids, in what appeared to be a coordinated flow of people.

"I think that after almost 48 hours since the beginning of the crisis in Ceuta, we can safely say that this was a manufactured crisis," said Riccardo Fabiani, Project Director for North Africa for the International Crisis Group.

He added: "We have testimonies by some Moroccans who crossed into Ceuta. We have videos circulating online showing trucks full of people unloading them in front of the complicit Moroccan police forces."

Morocco's ambassador to Spain said the situation in Ceuta had unfolded against Morocco's wishes. "We have always prioritized legal, orderly and safe migration for all," Kari