Spain says “virtually all” of the estimated 60,000 migrants who stormed its North African enclave of Ceuta by land and sea in recent days have already left again voluntarily, as European nations plan to hold a meeting to coordinate their response to the crisis.

The number of people who had died trying to enter Ceuta was raised to at least 67 on Saturday, Spanish officials said, adding there could be additional casualties on the Moroccan side of the border. Some of the confirmed dead had drowned, and ⁠some were crushed while trying to climb the breakwater that holds the border fence.

“Virtually all those who entered Ceuta have now returned to Morocco,” Spain’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jose Manuel Albares, wrote on X on Friday night.

The mass influx of migrants had dismayed European Union governments, and particularly those in the Schengen area – 29 countries that have abolished border controls for travel between them.

The EU said it will hold a video meeting on Tuesday after 22 bloc members issued a joint open letter on Saturday calling for a meeting of interior ministers “as a matter of urgency” to agree a speedy coordinated response, and to “prevent further uncontrolled crossings”.

Denmark and Italy had spearheaded the letter. Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of ⁠the EU, said on ⁠Saturday it had convened a meeting of ⁠the EU Justice ⁠and Home Affairs ⁠Council, chaired by Irish Justice, Home Affairs ‌and Migration Minister Jim O’Callaghan.

Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni wrote on X: “Defending the external borders of the Union is not the interest of a single Nation. It is a shared responsibility of Europe.”

EU chief Ursula von der Leyen on Friday described the images from Ceuta as “unacceptable”, while French Interior Minister Laurent Nunez said France would tighten its borders with Spain.

Spain’s Interior Ministry said about 50,000 people had crossed the border from Morocco to Ceuta since Thursday morning, and estimated that 48,300 had returned by 6pm (16:00 GMT) on Friday.

Juan Jesus Vivas, head of Ceuta’s local government, said as many as 60,000 people had pushed across over the past couple of days.

Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, who travelled to Ceuta on Friday, said the mass crossing represented “a violation of Spain’s territorial sovereignty”.

Spain announced it was installing a containment barrier along the breakwater fence into the sea.

Ceuta’s Vivas on Saturday called for action to complete the return of all those who entered the city and strengthen security for Ceuta’s residents.

According to statements reported by Spanish media, he said that the situation has not yet returned to normal and urged Spain to enable security forces and the army to complete the return of remaining migrants.

Vivas said more people and technology was needed to allow the Tarajal border crossing to fulfil its role as the EU’s external border crossing in Africa.

Moroccan police in riot gear used tear gas and water cannon trucks at the enclave’s border on Friday night to disperse people gathered near the fences and push them back.

“Honestly, I don’t even know why I came, and now I’m going back,” a young Moroccan man, who said he was from Tangier, told Reuters. “I haven’t eaten since lunch yesterday, even though I brought some money with me … What we’re doing is neither good nor enjoyable.”

Ceuta, together with Melilla – another autonomous ‌Spanish city in North Africa – represents the European Union’s only land border with Africa. Both cities often experience surges in attempted crossings by people seeking to migrate to Europe.

To reach Ceuta, migrants often swim from the Moroccan town of Fnideq, covering about 5km (3 miles) to reach Spanish territory. Others attempt the crossing from the nearby town of Belyounech, where the distance is shorter.

Ceuta authorities linked the surge in attempted crossings to a Spanish Supreme Court ruling earlier this month that prevented authorities from immediately returning migrants who arrive by sea. The ruling does not apply to migrants who enter Spain by land, including by climbing over the border fence.

Sanchez said on Friday that the influx of migrants was caused by mafias spreading rumours about this court ruling. But activists in Morocco expressed doubt that the ruling was behind the surge, arguing most migrants would have been unaware of such legal decisions.

Although the crossing appeared blocked later on Friday, many migrants still moved along the coast, seeking routes around the fence.

“I was late,” said Brahim, 32, who had arrived from Tangier hoping to cross through the gate, but found it effectively shut.