‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

‘We will kill, rape you’: Online mobs are targeting women protesters for ‘abusing’ Modi

The story of Kerala’s first female writer-composer who transcended her time

Why the BJP is struggling to crack Gen Z’s reel-driven algorithm

From a book on India’s trees: How the peelu tree, growing in saline soil, sustains desert ecology

Assam: NSA invoked against activist who opposed Kaziranga luxury hotel day after he gets bail

Modi government took over trusted helpline for distressed children. Two years later, it’s struggling

Tigmanshu Dhulia on playing the waiting game: ‘When you go against the tide, there will be problems’

Saffron shadows: Hockey India should have adopted the three-colour football kit of 1984

The toll in flood-related incidents in Assam rose to 82 on Friday, the state disaster management authority said.

Meanwhile, in Kerala and Gujarat, four persons each were killed in rain-related incidents.

In Assam, Sivasagar has reported the highest number of deaths at 42, followed by Charaideo at 21 and Jorhat at nine. Two persons remain missing in Sivasagar and Dhemaji districts.

The flood situation has improved since Thursday, with the number of affected people falling from more than two lakh to around 1.9 lakh. The number of affected districts has also declined from eight to five, The Tribune reported.

🚨 Update on #AssamFloods | 1 AugustRelief operations continue to expand across the State, with the number of relief distribution centres increasing to 1,811 now. Every effort remains focused on relief, rehabilitation & restoring normalcy. https://t.co/u4iXHu088j pic.twitter.com/eSKBjf6JX7

Since April 29, floods have affected 25 districts and impacted a total of 11.4 lakh persons in the state, the disaster management authority said.

Four persons were killed after heavy rain triggered flash floods and landslides in parts of central Kerala on Friday night, The New Indian Express reported.

Two deaths were reported from Idukki district and two from Kottayam district, The Indian Express reported.

The India Meteorological Department has issued a red alert for extremely heavy rain in Thrissur, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, while an orange alert warning of very heavy rain is in place for Ernakulam, Palakkad, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Alappuzha.

Chief Minister VD Satheesan said that the government was prepared to deal with rain-related emergencies, with teams of the National Disaster Response Force and other agencies deployed and on standby.

The authorities have also declared holidays for educational institutions in several districts as heavy rain is expected to continue, The New Indian Express reported. They have also advised against non-essential travel between Wayanad and Kozhikode districts, the Deccan Chronicle reported.

Four persons were killed in Gujarat on Friday due to rain-related incidents, The Indian Express reported.

Three farm labourers were electrocuted after a vehicle that they were travelling in, came into contact with a live high-tension power line in Navsari district, while an 11-year-old girl was swept away in a canal in Anand district.

The IMD has issued a red alert for five districts and an orange alert for 11 districts.

More than 16,500 people have been evacuated to safer locations and 41 people rescued, the newspaper quoted the state government as saying.