‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

‘We will kill, rape you’: Online mobs are targeting women protesters for ‘abusing’ Modi

The story of Kerala’s first female writer-composer who transcended her time

Why the BJP is struggling to crack Gen Z’s reel-driven algorithm

From a book on India’s trees: How the peelu tree, growing in saline soil, sustains desert ecology

Assam: NSA invoked against activist who opposed Kaziranga luxury hotel day after he gets bail

Modi government took over trusted helpline for distressed children. Two years later, it’s struggling

Tigmanshu Dhulia on playing the waiting game: ‘When you go against the tide, there will be problems’

Saffron shadows: Hockey India should have adopted the three-colour football kit of 1984

A migrant worker succumbed to his injuries sustained during a suspected militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Friday.

Another migrant worker had died in the attack on Friday. Both were from Chhattisgarh.

The suspected militants had opened fire at them in the Kellam area of Kulgam. Following the attack, the security forces cordoned off the area and began a search operation to track down the assailants.

Following the attack, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha condemned the attack, and said that he had spoken to Director General of Police Nalin Prabhat and other security officers.

The lieutenant governor said that he had directed the security forces “to step up their operations and eliminate the terrorists”.

On Saturday, Chief Minister Omar Abdullah announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 10 lakh each to families of the two workers. Additionally, the district administration will provide immediate assistance of Rs 6 lakh each, the chief minister’s office said

The attack came a week after a policeman was killed when militants opened fire on security personnel in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district on July 22. The policeman was identified as Head Constable Ashiq Hussain Qureshi.