Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Heavy rainfall on August 1, 2026, caused the Bavali River to overflow, inundating the Palapuzha bridge near Iritty in Kannur. | Photo Credit: S.K. MOHAN

Heavy rain triggered widespread disruption across the hilly regions of Kannur district on Saturday (August 1, 2026), damaging roads, inundating houses, forcing evacuations, and prompting the authorities to impose travel and tourism restrictions.

Eight families comprising 26 people were shifted to a relief camp after floodwaters entered houses at Peratta Thottipalam in Ulikkal grama panchayat. Fire and rescue services, assisted by residents, rescued those stranded in their homes and relocated 19 adults and seven children to the relief camp.

Two persons were reported missing in separate rain-related incidents. Hanifa, 40, of Kottamchuram in Manthana village, was swept away in the Kunhirapuzha at Peravur. In another incident, Rajesh, a swimming instructor from Thiruvananthapuram, was swept away while trying to rescue a person who was stranded on a river island at Meenthulli in Pullingome village. A search is on for the two missing persons.

Heavy rain damaged Boys Town-Palchuram road, disrupting traffic between Kannur and Wayanad. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has imposed a night traffic ban on the route from 6 p.m. on Saturday to 6 a.m. on Sunday (August 2, 2026), owing to the risk of landslides.

A woman, Sumathi, stranded on a river island at Thuruth in Pullingome-Kozhichal, was rescued by Fire and Rescue Services personnel and residents.

Landslides and flash floods affected several parts of the district. Water submerged Mattara, Vattiyamthode and Vayathur bridges in Ulikkal panchayat, while the Aralam Butterfly Sanctuary was inundated. Rafting in the Kariyangode river was suspended due to strong currents.

Following a sudden rise in water level the Kariyangode river, five families living on a river island in Kozhichal were shifted to relatives’ house as a precautionary measure.

The Pazhassi dam shutters were raised after the reservoir level went up following heavy rainfall in the catchment area. Residents living along the banks of the river have been advised to remain alert.

The District Tourism Promotion Council temporarily closed tourist spots like waterfalls and parks attached to beaches, besides suspended rafting and kayaking activities. Vehicle entry to the Muzhappilangad beach has been banned, and the public has been advised to avoid visiting beaches owing to rough sea conditions.

District Collector P. Vishnuraj chaired two meetings of the DDMA to review the evolving situation. Officials were directed to keep emergency shelters ready, strengthen preparedness in landslide-and flood-prone areas, issue warning to people living near rivers and the coast.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.