Describing Pakistan as a serial practitioner of terrorism in his UNGA address, foreign minister S Jaishankar said that there must be no dilution of the zero-tolerance approach to the menace. Without naming Pakistan PM Shehbaz Sharif, who had raked up the Kashmir issue in his General Assembly speech on Friday, Jaishankar said he had misrepresented facts and invoked arguments to normalise terrorism and claim immunity from its consequences."That will not stand," said the minister, adding that the scourge of terrorism had been a persistent threat to peace.Jaishankar called state-sponsored terrorism with a cross-border purpose a direct challenge to the global order, adding that India's right to defend itself from terrorism will be exercised.In his remarks, Sharif had yet again given credit to US President Donald Trump for ending the India-Pakistan conflict last year with his "timely intervention"."Govts indulging in such practices must be held accountable. There must be no dilution in our zero-tolerance approach towards terrorism. Its financial aspects, in particular, should be exposed and should be countered," said Jaishankar."Friendship and goodwill cannot co-exist with terrorism. And understandings premised on that will naturally be called into question. It is for the perpetrator of terrorism to mend its ways," he added.He also flagged the need to end conflicts in West Asia and Ukraine, saying the inability to maintain peace is not just undermining security but threatening progress and retarding development. "In a globalised world, the effects of war are felt worldwide. Countries far from conflicts are being penalised for no fault of theirs. Those most impacted often have the least say.""The targeting of commercial shipping and seafarers transiting international waterways is simply unacceptable," he said. Speaking on the West Asia crisis, the minister backed the two-state solution for durable and lasting peace.Jaishankar spoke about the Global South predicament in today's world and also the misuse of AI. He said a mindset of extreme competition had set in, undermining institutions and establishing choke points."Global South's right to industrialise is also undermined by non-market practices and market denial. The march of technology that was meant to instill hope has now become a source of anxiety. Misuse of AI is sharpening bias and diluting mutual respect. These directions bode ill for the aims and objectives of the UN."Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.