Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar speaks during the 81st session of the United Nations General Assembly at United Nations headquarters, Saturday, Sept. 26, 2026. | Photo Credit: AP

Delivering India’s National Statement at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday said the country would exercise its right to defend itself against terrorism. He also highlighted the impact of ongoing conflicts on the Global South.

In a response from the podium to Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif’s speech on Friday, where he had criticised India for launching Operation Sindoor last year, Mr. Jaishankar said that there could be “no dilution” of the world’s zero-tolerance approach to terrorism.

“Yesterday, a serial practitioner of terrorism misrepresented facts before this Assembly. Arguments were invoked to normalise terrorism and claim immunity from its consequences,” said Mr. Jaishankar, attacking Mr. Sharif’s speech, in which the Pakistan PM had called Kashmir Pakistan’s “jugular vein” and accused India of human rights violations in the region. Mr. Sharif had also claimed that the BJP government in India unleashed a “reign of terror” against minorities in the country.

Mr. Jaishankar said, “Our right to defend ourselves against terrorism will be exercised.” He added that governments indulging in state-sponsored terrorism with a “cross-border purpose” must be held to account.

Mr. Jaishankar also responded to Mr. Sharif’s statement that India is “weaponising water” by holding the Indus Waters Treaty in abeyance. “Friendship and goodwill cannot co-exist with terrorism. Understandings premised on that will naturally be called into question,” Mr. Jaishankar said in his speech.

Earlier in the day, Indian and Pakistani diplomats also exchanged sharp words as India exercised its right to reply to the Pakistan PM’s speech.

Briefing the UNGA regarding India’s position on global conflicts, including the wars in Ukraine and West Asia, Mr. Jaishankar said that countries far from the conflicts were being “penalised for no fault of theirs”, referring to the impact on the “Four Fs” of Food, Fuel, Fertilizers and Finance.

“Those most impacted often have the least say. This Assembly must face up to the true state of affairs,” he added, also referring to the attacks on seafarers in both conflicts, in which 18 Indians have been amongst those killed.

“This is completely unacceptable. India has joined Liberia and 23 other partners in an initiative to rally global public opinion against such unwarranted targeting,” he said.

Speaking about Israel’s war in Gaza, Mr. Jaishankar said that India believes peace requires a two-state solution and that New Delhi is continuing with its humanitarian efforts and providing relief supplies to Palestinians.

Mr. Jaishankar, who spoke on the fifth day of the General Assembly, said that a multi-polar world was on its way, and that the post-1945 order would have to give way to “new realities”. He called for “an intrinsically diverse world with a more democratic future”.

He also made a pitch for reformed multilateralism, a reference to expanding the UN Security Council to become more representative.

It was for the fifth time that Mr. Jaishankar delivered India’s National Statement, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi deciding to skip the UNGA this year. In the past 12 years, Mr. Modi has travelled to New York to deliver India’s National Statement thrice, in 2014, 2019 and 2021, while also delivering the statement in 2020 virtually in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.