External affairs minister S Jaishankar invoked Prime Minister Narendra Modi's previous remark at the United Nations General Assembly as he voiced concerns over countries across the world suffering due to the ongoing wars.

"Countries far from conflicts are being penalised for no fault of theirs. Those most impacted often have the least say," Jaishankar said, calling upon the assembly to "face up to the true state of affairs".

Earlier this year, addressing the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Kyrgyzstan's Bishkek, PM Modi had said, "The crisis in West Asia has shown that conflict in one region is not confined to that region. It impacts the entire world's energy security, maritime trade, and supply chains. Countries in the Global South bear the brunt of this."

ALSO READ: 'Serial practitioner of terrorism misrepresented facts': Jaishankar slams Pakistan at UNGA

Highlighting the unrest in West Asia at UNGA, Jaishankar on Saturday said, “This year, we are witnessing a conflict in the Gulf, one that is exacerbating an already difficult situation. We remain deeply concerned over continuing hostilities.”

Jaishankar also raised the issue of commercial shipping and seafarers being attacked amid strikes in the Strait of Hormuz. He said the attacks on ships transiting international waterways "is simply unacceptable".

"India calls upon all parties to exercise restraint, de-escalate tensions, ensure protection of civilians, and uninterrupted flow of energy and commerce," he said.

Jaishankar invoked another remark by PM Modi as he said, "The conflict in Ukraine, now in its fifth year, is equally concerning. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated, endless war must give way now to an end to war. India supports ongoing initiatives to bring peace. Even as this is underway, there is an urgent need to address the security of seafarers and the supply of food, grains, and energy."

Additionally, he underscored the imperative of safeguarding maritime crews and ensuring stable distribution channels for food grains and energy resources, affirming India's readiness to assist in mitigating global food and energy security challenges.

Jaishankar said that the two state solution to the Middle East crisis can bring durable peace. "India is prepared to do everything possible to ameliorate this situation, especially with regard to food and energy security. Tensions and violence also regrettably continue in West Asia or the Middle East. We strongly believe that a durable and lasting peace requires a two-state solution.

Akanksha Verma is an Associate Editor at the Hindustan Times in New Delhi. With an experience of over a decade, she has led newsrooms operations and worked on digital content strategies. She is adept at covering breaking news situations and holds expertise in doing long-form explainers on national, political and geopolitical issues. Akanksha has previously worked with The Times Of India, Indian Express Online, News18.com, India Ahead and The Daily Jagran. She has written on key national and global events, including the Lok Sabha Elections, Assembly Elections, US Elections, US-Iran war, Operation Sindoor, Israel-Palestine conflict, Afghanistan conflict, Ram Temple verdict, Ladakh standoff, Abrogation of Article 370 and Demonetisation. She holds a BA (Hons) in English from Ramjas College, University of Delhi, and a Postgraduate Diploma in English Journalism from the Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), Dhenkanal, Odisha. She is proficient in both English and Hindi and has earned a beginner-level certification in Korean. Beyond her newsroom responsibilities, Akanksha enjoys reading books that explore gender and social issues. She also turns to poetry as a creative outlet, writing verses whenever inspiration strikes.Read More