Experts said it makes sense for Meta to roll out its restrictions elsewhere, and that the growing awareness of social media harms may pressure other platforms to do the same.

SINGAPORE: For the past several years, regulators around the world have pressured social media companies to make platforms like Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and TikTok safer for children, or risk facing stringent measures, including bans.

So now that Meta – which owns Facebook and Instagram – has settled a lawsuit brought by US states and territories to the tune of US$18 billion (S$22.9 billion), along with a promise to implement new age restriction safeguards over the next decade, some experts see this as a win for governments.

Since these safeguards will be available, introducing the same measures in other markets is now in the interests of the social media giant, some experts told CNA. Whether it will do so remains to be seen, they added.

The requirements for Meta to change some of its product features may apply only to the US market, but it will likely start receiving requests to apply similar considerations elsewhere, said Dr Carol Soon, deputy head of the National University of Singapore’s (NUS) communications and new media department.

“This outcome comes on the back of global scrutiny on the harm social media use poses to children and young adults. Different jurisdictions using their regulatory frameworks could impose obligations on Meta to look into similar changes,” she told CNA.

The settlements, announced on Aug 26, end a federal trial over allegations that Meta's products harmed children and that the company misled the public about their safety.

Apart from the eye-watering sum that Meta agreed to pay US states over the next decade, the company also agreed to implement a swathe of product changes to protect kids online, including default daily time limits and night-time blocks.

Technology and digital media lawyer Fong Wei Li, who is also the managing director of Forward Legal, said that typically, when social media companies are made to roll out restrictions in a certain region, they plan for worldwide implementation.

“They’ve already put in all that effort into introducing new features or introducing restrictions. All these things take manpower, it takes resources. They’ve already pumped all those resources into ensuring that a certain geographical area is fenced off in terms of restrictions, features, sometimes it’s likely for them to roll it out worldwide,” he said.

Maintaining separate practices for enforcing trust and safety across different regions can also be difficult and internally confusing, said Mr Fong.

If the standards are applied differently across areas, consumers can take advantage of “regulatory arbitrage” and set up accounts based in places where the stricter standards are not introduced, he added.

Regulators in other countries where stricter standards are not introduced may question the platform and lobby for them to be introduced as well, said the lawyer.

But Meta might also decide to adopt a different tack, another legal expert said.

Dr Dirk Hartung, an assistant professor of law with Singapore Management University (SMU), disagreed that Meta was likely to roll out the restrictions worldwide or even in all US states, noting that Florida and New Mexico were not part of the current agreement.

Meta generally does not have a policy of voluntarily extending restrictions, especially if this is likely to harm their business interests, he added.

Under the substantial pressure of a trial, some of the restrictions Meta agreed to in the settlement will cut into the audience relevant to the ads they run, Dr Hartung noted.

“Given Meta’s historical strategy, they are likely to take all legal measures to limit the impact of these restrictions and will hope for many kids convincing their parents not to enact or follow up on these new restrictions,” he said, adding that he would be “very surprised” if Meta went beyond what they agreed to.

“They might decide to roll out some of these restrictions like content-policing and age verification on a global stage, but they will not do so with any measures meaningfully impacting user engagement.”

Meta did not answer CNA's questions on whether it will roll out safeguards for children in Singapore or in the region, with a spokesperson pointing to a post on its website calling on TikTok and YouTube to join it in supporting teens.

In an update on its website after the settlement, Meta stressed that teens move fluidly between many apps every day.

"All platforms should empower parents and support teens by putting the same measures in place, because we know that when teens are restricted on one app, they simply move to another," it said in the post.

It urged TikTok and YouTube to join them in adopting the new standards "for meaningful progress to happen".

Whatever Meta chooses to do, the landmark settlement puts pressure on other social media platforms to implement