Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar greets a group comprising 21 tourists from Tamil Nadu who were rescued from the floods that occurred in Nepal, on August 28, 2026. Photo: X/@DrSJaishankar

At least 320 Indians remain “uncontactable” following the devastating flash floods in Nepal, the External Affairs Ministry said on Friday (August 28, 2026).

External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Friday (August 28, 2026) received 21 pilgrims from Tamil Nadu who were rescued from the disaster-hit areas of Nepal. The Minister said he had promised additional disaster relief support in his conversation with his Nepali counterpart Shisir Khanal earlier in the day.

The third flight with assistance from India reached Kathmandu on Friday (August 28, 2026) night. “Relief supplies and an 11-member medical and tunnel rescue team are now on the ground,” Mr. Jaishankar posted on X.

“Relief supplies handed over to Mr. Mahabir Pun, Minister for Science, Technology and Innovation of Nepal,” said External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal.

“A third flight carrying 10 tonnes of humanitarian assistance has departed for Kathmandu. The assistance includes portable generator sets, dignity kits, food packets and water purification tablets. An 11-member team of doctors, paramedics and recce team for tunnel rescue operations is also on-board. India continues to support Nepal’s ongoing relief and rescue efforts,” said Mr. Jaishankar said in an X post earlier.

நேபாளத்தில் ஏற்பட்ட வெள்ளப்பெருக்கிலிருந்து மீட்கப்பட்ட, தமிழ்நாட்டைச் சேர்ந்த 21 யாத்ரீகர்கள் அடங்கிய குழுவை வரவேற்றேன். அவர்களின் அனுபவங்களை நேரில் கேட்டறிந்தபோது நெகிழ்ச்சியடைந்தேன். இந்த மீட்பு நடவடிக்கையை மேற்கொண்ட நேபாள ராணுவம் (@NepaliArmyHQ) மற்றும் அந்நாட்டு அரசுக்கு… pic.twitter.com/X5n0Of8J2O

“In addition, we have also offered Bailey bridges along with their associated technical teams so that connectivity can be restored quickly in the affected parts of Nepal. One Bailey bridge is already in Nepal and can be deployed for relief efforts,” said Mr. Jaiswal on Friday (August 28, 2026), announcing that the Government of India is arranging for the return of those Indians who were stranded in Nepal following the flash flood of August 26. He added that around 320 Indians remain “uncontactable”.

Mr. Jaiswal further said that India has made a “specific offer” to Nepali authorities to dispatch NDRF teams along with their associated equipment that can help in the ongoing search and rescue operations. “We await a response from the Government of Nepal on this front. We stand ready to offer any other assistant that the Nepal authorities might require,” he said.

Official sources have said 149 Indian nationals have crossed over from China into Nepal on Friday (August 28, 2026).

India / World / Nepal / Nepal flash floods 2026 / Environmental disasters / missing person / natural disasters

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.