Karnataka Planning and Statistics Minister B Nagendra on Friday stepped down from the state Cabinet, just 25 days after returning to the ministry, amid allegations related to the Valmiki Corporation scam. He broke down in tears during press conference in Bengaluru while announcing the resignation.

Nagendra announced his decision soon after stating that he would meet Chief Minister D K Shivakumar before making the matter public at a press conference.

“Today I am voluntarily tendering my resignation as the minister,” B Nagendra told reporters, according to PTI.

Nagendra said he had formally handed over his resignation to Shivakumar.

The BJP and JD(S) had opposed his return to the Karnataka Cabinet, staging protests against his re-induction two years after he had stepped down over the same controversy.

The Opposition parties have accused him of being linked to the alleged ₹89-crore Karnataka Maharshi Valmiki Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation scam.

While announcing his resignation in an emotional and strained voice, Nagendra drew a comparison between the BJP’s criticism of him and Lord Rama’s killing of Shambuka in the Ramayana. He alleged that the "manuwadis", apparently referring to the BJP, were opposed to a tribal person achieving political prominence.

Shambuka is described as an ascetic in the Uttara Kanda of the Valmiki Ramayana. According to the text, Rama killed him for undertaking penance.

Nagendra stated he had decided to step down to avoid putting his party in an uncomfortable position and to prevent what he described as the conspiracies of "manuwadis and vile communal forces" from gaining influence in Karnataka’s political landscape.

The BJP’s protests in both Houses of the Karnataka Legislature had resulted in the Monsoon session being adjourned sine die on August 24, three days before it was originally scheduled to end.

The Opposition had also announced plans to undertake a march from Raichur to Ballari between September 1 and 10.

Nagendra alleged that central investigating agencies had included his name in their second charge sheet "in a hurry".

"I have no role in the Valmiki Corporation scam. Did I sign anywhere, give any direction or write any note sheet?" he said.

He asked why Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had not stepped down when nationalised Union Bank of India was allegedly involved in the transfer of funds.

He also said he was willing to resign as an MLA and face the verdict of the "people's court".

Nagendra, who was serving as the Tribal Welfare Minister when the controversy came to light, had stepped down from the Karnataka Cabinet in June 2024. He returned to the state Cabinet on August 3, and was assigned the Planning and Statistics portfolio. His re-induction prompted the Opposition to renew calls for his removal.

Nagendra had earlier dismissed speculation about his resignation, maintaining that the allegations against him were "politically motivated".

Garvit Bhirani is a journalist based in Gurugram. He is a Deputy Chief Content Producer at LiveMint, where he covers national and international news stories, focusing on accuracy and compelling storytelling for readers. <br><br> With a total of six years of experience in journalism, he has previously worked with Vaco Binary Semantics for Google, taking on the role of news curation lead, and reported from the field on health, education, and agriculture stories for 101reporters and News9. He has also served as a content editor for entertainment and news media organisations. <br><br> Garvit holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in journalism and mass communication from Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and Gurugram University, respectively. During college days, he joined India’s only non-profit student journalism network, where he anchored daily news updates and produced his own weekly show called ‘Data Fix’. <br><br> He was selected for the YES Foundation Media for Social Change Fellowship in Delhi, the Talking Data to the Fourth Pillar residential workshop, and the VOICE Fellowship in Pune. <br><br> He holds certificates in COVID-19-verification reporting, data journalism, food & agriculture, tech policy, media literacy and countering misinformation, and tackling election disinformation courses from Thomson Foundation, IndiaSpend, The Dialogue, US Mission in India, and AFP. <br><br> He can be reached on <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/garvit-bhirani">LinkedIn</a> or on <a href="https://x.com/GarvitBhirani">@garvitbhirani</a> on X

Stay updated with the latest Trending, India, World and US news.

Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.

Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.