Congress leader B Nagendra, after stepping down as Karnataka minister less than a month after his induction, slammed who he referred to as “Manuwadis”, and criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party.

Nagendra on Friday said the BJP could not “scare him” with ED and CBI, while claiming that he had been “targeted” by “Manuwadis” because they did not want a tribal man to grow, PTI news agency reported.

The Congress leader announced his resignation as the minister for planning and statistics in Karnataka as well as from his MLA seat after allegations of his involvement in financial irregularities at the Maharshi Valmiki Scheduled Tribe Development Corporation.

Nagendra, in tears while relaying his decision, said he was stepping down of his own will to avoid “embarrassment” to his party. “I am resigning of my own will to avoid the embarrassment that may cost my party because of unnecessary allegations made by the opposition party against me,” he said, while alleging that he was a “victim” of BJP's “Manuwadi” politics.

Also Read | What was discussed at Amit Shah's meet with Vijay, Shivakumar, other South CMs?

His resignation came amid political pressure on him and the Congress party over the alleged Valmiki Corporation scam. The BJP has been demanding his resignation since his induction into chief minister DK Shivakumar's cabinet on August 3.

Despite the BJP's repeated demands seeking Nagendra's resignation, the Congress and CM DK Shivakumar had backed him publicly. The BJP and its ally JD(S) had earlier this week mobilised large number of workers and taken out a protest march to the Vidhana Soudha, seeking Nagendra's removal as minister.

Several protesters were detained, with BJP leaders B Y Vijayendra, R Ashoka and others taken into preventive custody. The BJP and JD(S) had also stalled proceedings in both Houses of the Karnataka legislature, calling for Nagendra's dismissal.

However, the Congress in Karnataka took a firm stand to back Nagendra, stating that no court of law had convicted him. “Let the opposition parties give a notice to discuss the issue in the House. There are many Union ministers facing criminal cases by the Enforcement Directorate (ED),” CM Shivakumar had said, adding that there was no question of seeking Nagendra’s resignation.

Nagendra himself had denied reports that he had offered to resign, saying there was no discussion regarding the same. “The reports currently being aired in the media are completely untrue. I have not received any call from the Chief Minister's Office, and there has been no discussion regarding any resignation. I request your cooperation,” a statement from Nagendra's office said, according to PTI.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More