Mumbai metro viaduct costing Rs 250 crore may be demolished due to planning error: Report

India’s indigenous fruits are disappearing from diets and the landscape

China just jailed a corrupt billionaire for life. Could that ever be possible in India?

In Gujarat, invasive tree helps tech giants buy carbon credits

Bengal: VHP asks Durga Puja organisers to ban meat inside pandals

Revoke RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s US visa, panel on religious freedom urges Trump government

India’s first railway is disappearing bit by bit. Can we save what’s left?

Dimagi Naxals? The sages of the Vedas and the Upanishads would qualify today

A new book looks at the history of the sari and all that it supports socially and economically

‘Babita Singh Reporting’ review: A character study posing as a police procedural

India plans to buy Javelin anti-tank guided missile systems from the United States, US Ambassador Sergio Gor said on Friday.

In a post on social media, Gor said the purchase was a “great step forward” in the US-India defence relationship and opened the door to co-production opportunities. “The engagement between our two nations is at record high levels,” he wrote.

The Javelin is a portable anti-tank missile that can be carried and operated by a single soldier. It uses a “fire-and-forget” system, allowing the missile to track and hit its target without further guidance from the operator.

The weapons system is used by the US military, its partners in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and some other countries such as Ukraine and Saudi Arabia.

The potential Javelin deal comes amid deepening defence relations between the two countries.

In October, India and the US signed a 10-year framework for “major defence partnership”.

The US had designated India as its “major defence partner” in 2016. In 2018, India was elevated to tier one of the Strategic Trade Authorisation, which allows New Delhi to receive license-free access to a range of US military and dual-use technologies.