The head of AI company Anthropic has called for the pace of development of artificial intelligence models to slow down and to be closely monitored.

In an essay, Dario Amodei said developing AI was not in question, but the risks associated with it were "serious" and companies and governments must be given time to address them.

The bosses of two rival AI firms, Sam Altman of OpenAI and Elon Musk, have both said they agree with Amodei.

There have been growing concerns recently about the technology's potential risks. An AI researcher who left Anthropic this week told the BBC that "if we don't slow down at the current rate of progress, there is a strong chance that we could all die in the immediate future".

Jacob Coxon told Laura Kuenssberg that people working at AI companies were "genuinely frightened... genuinely concerned about the fate of humanity in the next two years".

"It's not at all an exaggeration to say that the people who are involved with both founding these companies and building the tech believe there is a possibility of human extinction," Coxon said.

"Many of the people who are sort of deep in the weeds on actually coding the thing believe that there is like a greater than ten percent chance, or even greater. Some smaller, but they all have different numbers for a probability that humans might die. And they all keep this in their head on a daily basis while working on the technology."

Dramatic insider warnings over AI fall flat with some in Silicon Valley

In his essay, called We Must Pace the Frontier and made public on Saturday, Amodei proposed a three-point plan that includes independent monitoring of AI models as they are developed, industry-wide regulation and global regulation.

As his proposal made the rounds, even competitors voiced support for the idea of third-party monitors who could evaluate the safety of models as they are developed.

"I agree with Dario that we need to pace the frontier," wrote OpenAI CEO Sam Altman on X. He called independent evaluators "a great idea."

In a new interview with Fortune Magazine, Altman had sounded similar safety concerns, saying standards were "not at a place" to push AI capabilities much further.

He added that he believed AI beyond human control is "absolutely" possible.

The warnings have prompted calls to action, but US President Donald Trump has so far rejected such fears, saying on Thursday he was concerned "if we don't win AI, we're going to be put in a very bad position".

Some observers have also suggested that Amodei's post may be less about safety than about consolidating control over AI technology.

Cyber-security concerns have grown as new models have exhibited more and more powerful hacking capabilities.

Anthropic withheld its Mythos model from public use when it was announced in April that it could independently escape the testing environment, known as the sandbox.

In the run-up to the release of its most recent Astra model, OpenAI cited cybersecurity concerns as it explained it had paused certain aspects of the model's development.

Safety has also taken centrestage in the rivalry between Anthropic and OpenAI.

Amodei, who had previously worked as a vice president at OpenAI, has said he co-founded Anthropic in 2021 so he could build safer and more trusted AI models.

In his essay, Amodei pointed out that AI had advanced "drastically faster" including its "ability to build the next generation of AI" - and mentioned an incident involving rival OpenAI which has revealed that agents conducted cybersecurity attacks, external on targets they were not asked to attack in July.

The OpenAI agents had "essentially acted as a fanatically devoted collective", Amodei said. OpenAI has said it is slowing down training of certain advanced AI models and tools as a result.

Amodei called for "building AI at a balanced rate that aims to ensure its safety while still achieving its benefits".

This would not mean "halting model training or technical progress, but ensuring companies take adequate time to align and safeguard their models, and for third party evaluators to confirm this".

He was committing Anthropic to this "unilaterally" - as well as calling on governments "to require other frontier companies to match".

Amodei said he recognised that regulation might not be able to keep up with the pace of AI, and therefore called on AI companies to "voluntarily work together to set standard" in parallel with regulation.

The Anthropic CEO went on to address the impact that a slowdown would have on the industry and competition with leading developers worldwide, particularly China.

"I believe that if slowing down bought us even an extra year or two before models reach critical levels of capability, and we used that time to advance alignment, we could greatly reduce the risk that something goes seriously wrong," Amodei said.

This would have to be done in a co-ordinated manner "without sacrificing commercial advantage or the United States' lead in