The BRICS nations unanimously approved the 45-page New Delhi Declaration on Saturday at the summit led by India, expressing concerns about “the rise of unilateral tariff and non-tariff measures” and backing a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The declaration also condemned the Pahalgam terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir in 2025 and raised concerns about “deliberate attacks on civilian infrastructure and peaceful nuclear facilities”.

Here are the top highlights of the 45-page comprehensive document:

BRICS reiterated its backing for a lasting two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It also called for stronger international institutional support for Palestine and reaffirmed Israel’s legal responsibility to ensure humanitarian aid reaches Gaza.

“We reaffirm that a just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict can only be achieved by peaceful means and depends on the fulfilment of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including the rights to self-determination and return,” the declaration said.

The BRICS reiterated its support for Palestine becoming a full member of the United Nations, as part of its “unwavering commitment” to a two-state solution.

The declaration said the goal was to realise “the vision of two States living side by side, in peace and security.”

The BRICS countries raised strong objections to unilateral tariffs and other measures that restrict trade. It said such steps could turn into discriminatory and protectionist barriers, with developing economies facing a disproportionate impact.

"We voice serious concerns about the rise of unilateral tariff and non-tariff measures which distort trade and are inconsistent with WTO rules," the declaration said.

It also warned that growing trade restrictions, including "indiscriminate rising of tariffs and non-tariff measures, or protectionism under the guise of environmental objectives," could "further reduce global trade, disrupt global supply chains, and introduce uncertainty into international economic and trade activities."

The declaration condemned the April 2025 terror attack in Pahalgam and called for a zero-tolerance approach to cross-border terrorism. It also called for those responsible for the attack, along with their sponsors, to face justice.

“We condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir on 22 April 2025, during which 26 people were killed and many more injured,” it said.

It added, “We reaffirm our commitment to combating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including the cross-border movement of terrorists, terrorism financing and safe havens.”

BRICS welcomed the ceasefire in Lebanon and called for the complete implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1701. It also urged Israel to pull its forces out of Lebanese territory, where they are still present.

“We condemn the continued violations of the ceasefire and of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Lebanon. We call on Israel to respect the terms agreed with the Lebanese government and to withdraw its occupying forces from all of the Lebanese territories, in which they remain,” it said.

It expressed deep concern over the continued rise in tensions in West Asia and urged all sides to exercise maximum restraint and avoid steps that could worsen the situation.

The declaration specifically raised concerns about deliberate attacks on civilian infrastructure and peaceful nuclear facilities protected by full International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards.

“We express serious concern over deliberate attacks on civilian infrastructure and peaceful nuclear facilities under full safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), in violation of international law and relevant resolutions of the IAEA. Nuclear safeguards, safety, and security must always be upheld, including in armed conflicts, to protect people and the environment from harm,” it said.

The declaration backed the ambitions of India and Brazil to take on a larger role at the United Nations, including its Security Council.

“...China and Russia, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, reiterate their support to the aspirations of Brazil and India to play a greater role in the UN, including its Security Council,” it said.

The declaration criticised unilateral coercive measures, which it said violate international law. It also reiterated its opposition to unilateral economic sanctions and secondary sanctions, saying they have “far-reaching negative implications for the human rights, including the rights to development, health and food security, of the general population of targeted states, disproportionally affecting the poor and people in vulnerable situations, deepening the digital divide and exacerbating environmental challenges.”

It called for “the elimination of such unlawful measures”, arguing that these actions weaken international law and the principles and purposes of the U