Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Maratha quota activist Manoj Jarange-Patil | Photo Credit: Emmanual Yogini

Maratha reservation activist Manoj Jarange-Patil announced on Saturday that he and his supporters will march to Mumbai starting September 15 and hold an indefinite hunger strike at Azad Maidan from September 19 to demand job and education quotas.

“The first stop will be in Patoda, Beed, on September 15. The next stop will be Srigonda in Ahilyanagar district on September 16; Hadapsar in Pune district will be the third stop on September 17; the fourth stop will be Khopoli in Raigad district on September 18; and the final stop will be Khoparkhairane in Navi Mumbai,” Mr. Jarange-Patil said.

He noted that the plan involves travelling through Western Maharashtra and urged supporters to cover roughly 100 kilometres each day before reaching their scheduled stops.

Calling on demonstrators to maintain order, Mr Jarange-Patil said: “Do not resort to stone pelting no matter what the action is from the other side. Maintain peace during march.” He also requested Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis not to create barriers for the protesters.

Mr. Jarange-Patil has been on an indefinite hunger strike since August 29, demanding the issuance of Kunbi certificates to Marathas based on 5.8 million records.

He has earlier alleged that the government has failed to issue certificates in accordance with the Government Resolution granting the Maratha reservation and has refused to validate issued certificates.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.