Why do anti-reservation ideologues love the creamy layer so much?

‘Adkitta’ review: Film about working parents and their son’s nanny falls between the cracks

Indonesia asks India to hand over five infant orangutans rescued from Odisha

‘Goa has become internally exotic in India because of its Portuguese heritage’

How India and China managed the Kailash-Manasarovar pilgrimage in the 1950s

‘Shake off the aura’: Novelist Amitabha Bagchi on originality and borrowing in literary writing

Ramachandra Guha: For 120 years, Indian students have fought to change politics and public life

Mythological fiction: This Hindi novel in translation is about Sita’s life, in her own words

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to issue orders restraining Maratha quota activist Manoj Jarange-Patil from holding a march to Mumbai.

The court said that it could not issue directions against the march based only on the apprehensions raised by the petitioner.

“We find at present the entire case of the petitioners is set up on the basis of past experience,” the court said. “There is no such situation as yet which has emerged for us to take cognisance and issue appropriate directions in the matter.”

“State machinery is capable of handling all these situations,” Bar and Bench quoted the court as verbally observing.

Jarange-Patil has been on an indefinite hunger strike in Jalna district since August 29, demanding reservation for the Maratha community under the Other Backward Classes category, The Hindu reported. His demands include the issuance of Kunbi caste certificates to eligible members of the community.

A division bench of Chief Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi and Justice Advait M Sethna was hearing a petition filed by a Mumbai resident named Nilesh Dhanukar seeking directions against the proposed march.

The counsel for the petitioner argued that the court should intervene immediately ahead of the Ganesh festival starting on September 14. He said that the proposed protest could lead to chaos similar to the demonstrations in South Mumbai in 2025.

He also referred to Jarange-Patil’s statements urging his supporters to come to Mumbai even without permission and asking those unable to travel to block roads in their local areas, Bar and Bench reported.

However, the court said that it cannot stop someone from protesting in a democracy.

“How can we stop someone from agitating or protesting?” The Hindu quoted Tripathi as saying. “Why should we pass orders based on your speculations and apprehensions and make observations?”

Appearing for the state, Advocate General Milind Sathe, told the bench that Jarange-Patil had not sought permission under the 2025 Public Meeting, Agitation and Procession Rules to hold the march to Mumbai.

Sathe assured the bench that the state was prepared to maintain law and order in case of any “unwarranted situation”.