Yemen's Iran-backed Houthis have seized the strategic Red Sea port city of Mokha from Saudi-backed pro-government forces, military sources and witnesses told the BBC.The capture brings the Houthis within 75km (46 miles) of the Bab al-Mandab Strait, a key gateway for global trade between Asia and Europe. The group said it posed no threat to international shipping but maintained its threat to target Saudi vessels.Mokha residents told the BBC that Houthi fighters entered the city after fierce clashes on Wednesday night, forcing many families to flee. Government offices and shops were closed on Thursday, with Houthi fighters reportedly patrolling the streets."The takeover came without warning. Panic spread throughout the area, forcing people to flee amid distressing scenes of injured people lying in the streets with no-one there to help them," one man told BBC Arabic's Middle East Lifeline programme.Another resident said: "At the moment, we don't know what Ansar Allah will do. Everyone is afraid for their safety."Many displaced families have been heading east towards Aden, where Yemen's internationally recognised government is based."We fled with our children and kept running. We have no bedding, no home, nothing with us. Everything was destroyed within an hour. They didn't even give us a chance or warn us beforehand," one woman told BBC Arabic."We are women with no means of defending ourselves, and we have innocent children with us."The Houthis have not directly confirmed the capture of Mokha, but their Supreme Political Council said clashes had ended in western coastal districts after Saudi-backed forces were pushed out. Pro-government commander Tarek Salah said his forces had moved their command centre to a "safe location".The escalation comes after the Houthis launched an offensive in south-west Yemen a week ago. Hundreds have reportedly been killed and thousands displaced. Saudi-led coalition forces have carried out air strikes on Houthi-controlled areas, while the Houthis have launched missiles and drones at southern Saudi cities and oil facilities.The conflict has also contributed to a rise in oil prices, with the Houthis' threat to Saudi shipping adding to concerns over security around the Red Sea.Catch the latest World News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.