Trump will also speak again but assured audiences it would not be another two-hour address

Trump promise of $5,000 for US citizens after midterms decried as ‘bribery’

Back with his comically large gavel, Joe Gruters – the Republican National Committee chair – kicked off the second night of the GOP midterm convention.

Gruters noted that today is the one year anniversary of Charlie Kirk’s death – the conservative activist and Turning Point USA founder who was shot and killed while speaking at a campus event in Utah.

“He [Kirk] believed in America, in freedom, in young people’s courage to stand up and fight for the country they love. He didn’t just join a movement; he built one,” Gruters said. “Let’s honor Charlie and let’s be more like Charlie Kirk.”

Later today, we’ll also hear from vice-president JD Vance, who’ll deliver the keynote address. Donald Trump will also speak again, but assured last night’s audience in Dallas that he doesn’t plan to speak for that long.

“I’m going to be just sort of getting up here and saying, good luck. We love you all,” he said at the end of his nearly two-hour speech on Wednesday.

On the one year anniversary of Charlie Kirk’s killing at Utah Valley University, Lucas Miles, the vice-president of Turning Point USA – the organization Kirk founded – took to the stage.

“There is something wonderfully defiant about the fact that his [Kirk’s] voice has not grown quieter; it has multiplied today,” Miles said. “They could take the man; they could not take the mission, because Charlie spent his life sowing the seeds of that mission in others.”

In his remarks to the audience in Dallas, Mike Johnson, the Republican House speaker, said that while big names like Zohran Mamdani and Abdul El-Sayed are known entities, he focused on “Democrats in the swing seats who say one thing, and then join forces and vote with the socialists that they’re afraid of”.

Johnson added: “They’re the ones who have let the barbarians inside the gate, and next year the communists will be in Congress. That’s what’s so frightening.”

Cruz hit on many of the Republican party’s obsessions when it comes to the left wing.

“We are witnessing a new and dangerous red-green alliance: communists and Islamists coming together and sweeping over the Democrat party,” Cruz said, while invoking New York City mayor Zohran Mamdani and Abdul El-Sayed, the Democratic nominee for the US Senate in Michigan.

Ted Cruz, the Texas senator, has walked on stage in Dallas to rapturous applause.

“We are just 54 days out from the most consequential midterms of our lifetime,” he said, while acknowledging the killing of Charlie Kirk a year ago and the 25th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks.

While Cruz is using his time to heap praise on Donald Trump, this is a far cry from the same lawmaker who called the now-president a “serial philanderer”, an “amoral pathological liar” and a “braggadocious, arrogant buffoon” on the 2016 presidential campaign trail, when Cruz ran for the Republican nomination that Trump eventually won.

The prosecutor in charge of leading a justice department investigation into whether former law enforcement and intelligence officials conspired against the Republican president has stepped down from his position, according to the Associated Press.

“I did in fact resign,” Joe diGenova told the AP, calling it an “honor and a privilege” to serve Trump and the justice department.

DiGenova declined to comment on the circumstances of his departure, which came just five months after he was brought back to the DoJ to oversee the investigation targeting former government officials who, over the last decade, have scrutinized Trump in various criminal inquiries.

On stage now is Lisa McClain, House Republican conference chair and representative from Michigan.

McClain is using her time to repeat many of the same fear-mongering talking points about the upcoming midterms that we heard on night one. She’s particularly focused on slamming the Democratic nominee for the US Senate in her state, Abdul El-Sayed, who she says wants to “release violent criminals back into your communities”.

McClain also zeroed in on El-Sayed campaigning with Hasan Piker, the progressive Twitch streamer, during Michigan’s Democratic primary, where El-Sayed was forced to answer for Piker’s past comments on Israel and September 11. In 2019, as part of a broader critique of American foreign policy, Piker said the US “deserved” the terror attacks. However, he later apologised for the remark.

“My mom has a saying: ‘You are who you hang with’,” McClain said, adding that the November elections are a choice “between common sense and communist crazy”.

In an interview with CBS News on the second night of the GOP midterm convention, Donald Trump said that he doesn’t think that Congress would need to approve the $5,000 checks that he wants to cut should Republicans retain control of the House and Senate in November.

A reminder that this pledge comes with a