Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Pilot Smit Machchhar, who saved passengers after he was stabbed by his colleague in an alleged attempt to crash a flydubai plane on September 30, 2026. | Photo Credit: Israel Foreign Ministry via Reuters

President Droupadi Murmu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday (October 1, 2026) hailed Indian pilot Smit Machchhar, who saved hundreds of lives after he thwarted his co-pilot’s alleged attempt to crash a Dubai flight.

The Prime Minister has spoken to the wife and parents of Captain Smit Machchhar and applauded Captain Smit’s bravery, according to government sources.

The flydubai flight FZ1073, travelling from Dubai to Tel Aviv, had transmitted emergency signals on Wednesday (September 30, 2026) and made a sharp descent of more than 17,000 feet from 34,000 feet before diverting to Prince Sultan Bin Abdel Aziz Airport in Saudi Arabia’s Tabuk city. The flight was carrying 174 passengers, including 27 children.

During the altercation inside the cockpit with the co-pilot, Captain Smit Machchhar was stabbed.

PM Modi also stressed that Indian missions are providing all possible help.

Trump says flydubai pilot 'a hero', plumber steadied plunging aircraft

Inside the Dubai airline flight that made emergency landing after captain was stabbed

Israeli PM hails Indian pilot wounded in diverted flydubai flight

Calling Captain Smit Machchhar a “HERO”, PM Modi said, “In the face of the gravest danger and despite being seriously injured, he showed immense courage and an unwavering resolve to protect the lives of others. His valour helped save hundreds of lives and avert a great tragedy. India is proud of Captain Machchhar.”

Lauding Captain Machchhar’s “courage and incredible presence of mind”, the President said, “Even after being seriously injured in a moment of grave peril, he remained determined to protect the lives of others. His bravery and quick response helped prevent a major tragedy and saved many precious lives.”

“I salute his indomitable spirit. I pray for his speedy recovery and good health,” the President wrote on X.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.