Trump also claims he’s ‘actually making it much safer’ for South Korea by scaling back joint military drills just days after North Korea test-fired ballistic missiles

Donald Trump has ⁠said that ​North Korean leader ⁠Kim Jong-un ⁠has ​responded ‌to his overtures ‌after he ‌ordered the US to scale back military ‌exercises with South ​Korea.

Speaking ‌to reporters in the Oval ‌Office, Trump was asked why Kim had not responded to his overtures. Trump shot back at the reporter: “How do you know he hasn’t responded?” The reporter then asked again if he had.

“Um, yeah he has,” Trump said. Asked what stage the conversations with Kim were at, Trump said “it’s very positive”, but provided no further detail. He added:

double quotation markKim Jong-un has always ​treated ​me with great ​respect and we met ​on numerous ‌occasions, ​actually ​two primary occasions, spoken and spent time. I understand him. He understands me.

Their relationship was ‌a dominant theme during Trump’s first term, including a ​series of meetings between them, but has received less emphasis in his second ⁠term.

More now from Jared Kushner’s interview with Fox News in Tel Aviv, where Donald Trump’s special envoy and son-in-law said that progress in getting Hamas to give up its weapons and move forward with a Gaza peace plan could materialize in about a month.

“We could be seeing progress ... in as little as 30 days, hopefully starting to take some of the weapons out,” Kushner said.

He said he met for nearly four hours with Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and reassured him on several sticking points. “There were some valid concerns” on the Israeli side, Kushner said.

For example, he said, the Trump administration is committed to helping to rebuild Gaza. “But we will not allow Gaza to be rebuilt until the demilitarization occurs. Nobody wants to put more money into a place ... if it’s just going to be taken over by terrorists,” he said.

“We’re also not going to restrict Israel’s right to defend itself if there are any imminent threats and so we had to clarify what that means,” Kushner said. “For Israel we think it’s a win-win situation.”

Either Hamas will go ahead in disarming “willingly over the next 60 to 90 days” or “Israel will have a lot more support from the US and others to go and finish the job in the appropriate way,” Kushner added.

He said he had had a “very cordial” meeting with Hamas officials, but added that “it’s very, very hard to trust a terrorist organization.”

Construction on a US-Mexico border project in Big Bend national park has halted, the Trump administration said today, as Customs and Border Protection (CBP) evaluates the controversial project in Texas.

“CBP is pausing all construction activity in Big Bend National Park while I visit and conduct a personal, on-the-ground evaluation,” CBP’s head, Rodney Scott, wrote in a social media post.

Footage of bulldozers ploughing through the 800,000-acre (325,000-hectare) Chihuahuan desert national park emerged earlier this month, after the Trump administration did not announce and initially denied construction on a multibillion-dollar “smart wall” expansion in the park.

Last year, Congress approved $46.5bn for a border wall expansion in the “big, beautiful” spending bill Donald Trump signed into law on 4 July 2025.

Although many Texas Republicans have remained silent about the construction, outgoing senator John Cornyn sent a letter to Markwayne Mullin, Trump’s homeland security secretary, asking him to halt construction on the wall.

“My constituents believe that the 1,000-foot riverbank cliffs and remote Big Bend terrain offers its own sources of deterrence for any illegal migrants crossing into the United States,” Cornyn wrote.

Scott, the CBP chief, has said that he expects the agency will build the first layer of the wall by the end of next year.

Donald ⁠Trump’s approval rating ​fell to the lowest level of his presidency with an overwhelming majority of Americans concerned the war with Iran will ⁠last a long time, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll that concluded today.

Just 33% of respondents in the four-day survey said they approved of ⁠Trump’s performance in the White House, while 64% disapproved.

Trump’s approval rating, down from 35% ​in a poll that closed earlier this ‌month and lower than ‌at any point in his current term, has now tied the lowest level of his ‌prior term reached in December 2017.

After returning to the White House last year with just under half the country approving of his presidency, Trump’s popularity this year took a hit after he ordered strikes on Iran alongside Israel.

The ensuing conflict paralyzed a fifth of the global oil trade, triggering a surge in the price ‌of gasoline which is weighing on US households - and on Trump’s Republican allies defending congressional majorities in November’s crucial midterm elections.

Trump, who campaigned on promises to ​keep inflation in check and avoid long-lasting wars, initially