Belgium wildfire creeps closer to German border, as 104 firefighters and 36 vehicles from France help with Spain wildfire effort

The European Commission has deployed assistance to Belgium and Spain as part of the bloc’s civil protection mechanism.

Two Swedish planes from the EU’s firefighting fleet were dispatched to Belgium, alongside two helicopters each from the Netherlands, Norway and Germany, the executive arm of the bloc said.

Over in Spain, 104 ground firefighters and 36 vehicles from France joined local efforts to fight various blazes.

The EU is also continuing to support emergency efforts with satellite mapping through its Copernicus service.

French prime minister Sébastien Lecornu was booed on arrival to Le Porge, one of the towns most affected by the massive wildfire in the Gironde region last month (10:50), before unveiling his government’s plans to support the communities affected by the blaze, including €12m in aid (14:09).

Lecornu also strongly pushed back against conspiracy theories and criticism of the firefighting efforts in the area (12:12), and warned about the climate-related risk of floods this autumn and winter (14:42).

Belgian firefighters were locked in fight against a blaze in the eastern part of the country on the border with Germany, successfully “limiting” its spread (11:25, 12:44, 16:21) as they called for more resources and international support (11:48, 13:04) on the day of King Philippe’s visit to the coordination centre (13:10).

Over in Greece, firefighters fought back against local fires, eagerly awaiting the expected improvement in weather conditions in Tuesday after a bruising weekend of large blazes (10:26, 13:55, 17:02).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Meanwhile, Greek authorities say the country could see an improvement in weather conditions on Tuesday, allowing the wildfire risk to be downgraded to level 2 out of 5, local daily Kathimerini reported.

Parts of Attica, including Athens, as well as central Greece and the northern Peloponnese will remain at level 3.

The forecast offers a welcome respite after a series of extreme wildfires that have claimed seven lives in recent weeks.

Over in Belgium, firefighters are struggling to bring the fire under control due to difficulties accessing the terrain, local media reported.

Broadcaster VRT reported that tackling the blaze is particularly difficult in peatland areas, where heavy equipment cannot easily reach, leaving emergency crews with no choice but to deploy aerial support.

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said on X that “Europe’s solidarity is in full flight,” with several teams deployed to the countries most affected by wildfires. “We keep a close eye on developments,” she said.

Speaking during her visit, Rayner told reporters that the challenges posed by wildfires are “becoming more frequent.”

“We’re seeing a pattern here with the wildfires. We’re seeing a pattern with climate.”

Meanwhile in the UK, the housing secretary Angela Rayner has visited the burnt-out remains of homes in the West Midlands gutted by a wildfire last week.

She could be seen walking among the shells of properties at Stourbridge following the huge blaze which destroyed 19 homes.

Residents evacuated from their homes in the area have been allowed to return to view their properties, an update from the local council said yesterday.

There have been cooler temperatures in the UK on Monday following the country’s fifth heatwave of the summer which saw temperatures of 38C last week.

The country’s forecaster, the Met Office, said heavy showers are expected to hit the UK on Thursday, missing some areas but bringing the chance of surface flooding in places where rainfall is particularly intense, it added.

Speaking in Gironde, Lecornu also warned about the prospect of floods this autumn and winter as an indirect result of the impact of the devastating wildfires this summer.

“Our disaster can herald another,” he said in comments reported by BFMTV, stressing he asked the authorities to work on these issues.

It’s not the first time a senior politician draws a link between wildfires and floods: Britain’s prime minister Andy Burnham also made the link in his speech last Friday.

He said experts had warned the UK could face a wet autumn and winter because of the El Niño effect “so, after fire could come floods”.

I’m still following the French PM Sébastien Lecornu’s visit to regions hit by last month’s wildfires in France.

Speaking at a press conference in Gironde, Lecornu promised the French state would work on rehousing those affected and fast-track planning permissions to allow for the quickest possible reconstruction of properties damaged by last month’s major wildfires.

He said the government would step in to help residents get payouts from insurance companies and target firms deliberatel