Fires are burning in several European countries on Monday as the continent experiences a spate of wildfires after many weeks of hot and dry weather.

Some 576,000 hectares (2,225 square miles) of land have been burnt out so far this year, according to data from the European Forest Fire Information System — an area twice the size of Luxembourg.

Europe suffered its worst fire season on record last year, with more than a million hectares of land burned, but that sad record could be beaten in 2026, as the fire season still has some time to run.

Some 500 firefighters and troops continue to battle a massive blaze in the High Fens park on the border to Germany, with rain beginning to help their efforts on Monday

The fire, which broke out on Friday, has destroyed some 3,000 hectares (7,500 acres). It is the country's largest in modern history.

King Philippe interrupted his summer vacation to visit the scene and speak with emergency services, calling the park a "national treasure." Philippe spoke of a "difficult moment for Belgium" and was briefed by local, regional and national political leaders on site.

Germany's Defense Ministry said on Monday that it would be sending two military water-bombing helicopters to the region.

On Sunday evening, some 30 people living in the German town of Monschau were ordered to evacuate as the fire threatened to cross the border, but the danger has since receded.

Weather agency IRM said between 5 and 9 millimeters (0.2 to 0.35 inches) of rain was forecast on Monday in the High Fens.

Fire services on the Greek island of Salamina, near the capital, Athens, have almost succeeded in putting out two fires there, they said on Monday.

The fires have claimed two lives and caused the evacuation by boat of nearly 500 people.

The fire department said the fires spread in just seven minutes amid strong winds, trapping the elderly couple, who died near their home.

The island is popular with day travelers, with the fire breaking out near full beaches.

French Prime Minister Sebastian Lecornu has been jeered by residents in the fire-ravaged village of Le Porge in the western Gironde region.

Altogether 183 homes in the village were destroyed in a giant wildfire last month that forced the evacuation of more than 220,000 residents and tourists.

​Residents have criticized the government's response to the disaster and accused ⁠authorities of prioritizing the protection of wealthier areas, such as the upscale Cap-Ferret peninsula.

Meanwhile, authorities said a fire burning in the nearby southwestern Landes region since Thursday was now under control and that 250 people who were evacuated would be allowed to return to their homes in the village of Luglon.

A Spanish soldier has been killed and hundreds of people have been evacuated amid a major wildfire in Aragon.

The fire, which broke out last Monday, has threatened a 1,000-year-old monastery.

French firefighters have been called in to help contain the wildfire, which has destroyed 16,600 hectares.

A number of fires are currently raging in Portugal, with hundreds of firefighters working to extinguish them.

Five firefighters sustained minor injuries when their vehicle caught fire in one of the blazes near the village of Dine at the border to Spain, according to media reports.

There are currently several other fires burning near the Spanish border, including at Boticas and Chavez, said the civil protection agency ANEPC.

A fire in the tourist town of Omis that forced 1,000 ​people to evacuate after it broke out on Thursday night has been stabilized, authorities said.

Croatian media said one person was killed and 40 injured, seven of whom are in danger of their lives.

Croatian police said they had arrested four people suspected of starting some of the wildfires that have broken out on parts of the Adriatic coast in recent days.

Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google by clicking here and hitting the "star" or "preferred" button, so you'll always see our verified news first.