Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Deepak Mhaskey has served as a State-level spokesperson and had headed the Chhattisgarh social media cell in the past. Photo: X/@deepakmhaskey.

Deepak Mhaskey — whose name was announced as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s new national social media convener on Monday (August 17, 2026) — is seen as a strong backroom figure in his home State of Chhattisgarh. However, taking up a bigger role at a time when the party is being forced back to the drawing board to connect with the youth, the spotlight is expected to be firmly on him and his team.

Soon after Mr. Mhaskey’s name was announced, the 58-year-old Chemistry professor-turned-politician was asked how he would engage with the youth, to which he replied that it would be through “reels” and that they [the youth] were already on social media and the party would try to reach them through the same.

The reply was in his own mild-mannered style, one that has drawn comparisons with his long-serving predecessor Amit Malviya, who was known to be more aggressive. Mr. Mhaskey, who has served as a State-level spokesperson and had headed the State social media cell in the past, was known as someone who was not very regular on TV debates and one who presented the party’s point of view on local media steadily but calmly.

Those who have worked with him, however, say that he may come across as unassuming but can shift gears when needed. A case in point, they say, was the party’s constant attack on the Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government on the issue of corruption in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly polls by bombarding the popular social media networks with relevant posts and pictures. It was also the same period when the party’s current national president, Nitin Nabin, was the BJP in-charge of Chhattisgarh and had the opportunity to see Mr. Mhaskey’s work up close. Later, he also contributed to State election wins in West Bengal and Bihar, putting in use his data analysis skills, said party leaders.

Mr. Mhaskey was born into a Maharashtrian Brahmin family which has past connections with the BJP, including the erstwhile Jan Sangh, and the RSS. A profile shared by the party revealed that early in his career, he worked as a college chemistry professor for a few years.

“He is an avid agriculturist with over 35 years of experience in agricultural crops and organic farming. He is interested in data collection, analysis, and governance roles,” it added.

Mr. Mhaskey will be leading a team which will have Priti Gandhi, Alok Bhatt, Shiwanand Dwivedi and Arun Yadav.

While Mr. Mhaskey spoke of busting propaganda after the appointment, the BJP that has been ruling the country for over 12 years is facing questions on governance from a generation that is thinking, acting and connecting differently than the earlier ones. Party colleagues say that of his over three and a half decades, he has been dealing with social media for over 12 years and that makes him suitable for the role. Even Mr. Malviya, when he first took over as the social media chief had lesser experience as a BJP member, they say, even as they underline the need for a more balanced approach in current times.

Mr. Mhaskey was congratulated by Chief Minister Vishnu Deo Sai, other Chhattisgarh leaders, and Mr. Malviya. In a long post on X in which he congratulated the new office-bearers whose names were announced in Monday’s organisational reshuffle, Mr. Malviya wrote: “I wish to particularly congratulate Shri Deepak Mhaskey ji, who will be taking over from me as the head of the BJP’s Social Media Department...” making a specific mention of his successor.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.