Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

When the route up the economic ladder in society is limited to an ever-narrowing range of options in the public sector, and the process of gaining entry through entrance examinations becomes tainted, angst and agitation are the results. This is why students in Jharkhand, loosely organised into two platforms — the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC)-Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) Abhyarthi Nyay Manch and the JPSC-JSSC Reform Manch — have been protesting in Ranchi for over three weeks. The trigger was the July 2 result of the JPSC’s 14th Combined Civil Services preliminary examination, which shortlisted 2,204 candidates from about 3.5 lakh aspirants for 103 posts. Aspirants pointed to undisclosed category-wise cut-offs, oddities in the merit list, a widely circulated OMR sheet on which an ostensibly successful candidate had attempted fewer than half the questions, and the fact that the conducting agency had been blacklisted in May 2025. The two platforms differ in their political leanings and have sought to negotiate separately with the government, but both want the cancellation of the disputed JPSC and JSSC exams, a CBI investigation and prosecution of officials, besides the reconstitution of commissions and a predictable examination calendar. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led coalition government has responded with CID raids, arrests, resignations in the JPSC, and a cabinet committee. On Monday it went further, announcing the cancellation of all examinations conducted since 2014 by the outsourced agency, TSR Data Processing, which might help assuage the agitating students but could leave those who cleared the examinations fairly in the lurch.

The rot in the exam system is deep-rooted. Since the State’s formation in 2000, results have frequently been delayed and cycles have been bunched up many times. In a recent JSSC exam, an SIT reported no organised leak despite CID reports that described money changing hands for pre-examination access. These have eroded students’ trust in the government; hence the demand for a CBI probe. The 2003 and 2005 exams were subject to CBI scrutiny but the cases are still pending. Yet, the Hemant Soren-led government should concede this politically unpalatable demand, along with other steps, including a fixed exam calendar, and fair and transparent marking with clear cut-offs and time-bound results. Jharkhand is one of India’s poorest States, and its mineral wealth has not led to sufficient employment. With youth forced to rely on monsoon-dependent agriculture and allied activities, a government job offers a steady option. Aspirants spend years in coaching centres and libraries in pursuit of this. The youth deserve not only a fair recruitment system but also a government that diversifies their options for gainful employment.

entrance examination / test/examination / Jharkhand protest / politics / government / Jharkhand Mukti Morcha / corruption & bribery / investigation / employment / minerals / agriculture

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.