Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra. File | Photo Credit: Screenshot via X/@MishraManan01

Days after the Bar Council of India (BCI) tried to prevent NALSAR students from enrolling with State Bar Councils before a backlash forced it to recant, BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra on Saturday (August 15, 2026) apologised to law students for any hurt caused by his words or communications.

In a three-page letter issued on Independence Day, Mr. Mishra — who is also a senior advocate and BJP MP — said he regretted and apologised for any of his statements or directives that may have hurt students.

“If anything connected with the present controversy, any of my words, or letter, has hurt the feelings of our law students, I sincerely regret and apologise for the same. There should be no hesitation in saying so. An expression of regret is not a matter of prestige or ego. It is simply an acknowledgment that the feelings and concerns of our students matter,” he said.

The BCI chairman did not name any particular institution or directly identify the controversy in his letter. Instead, he focused on the concerns raised by students and stressed that their views should be heard with patience, sensitivity, and respect.

He emphasised that law students, particularly those studying at national law universities and other leading institutions, are capable of forming their own views and should not be subjected to pressure or influence. He said students should be allowed to independently assess the facts and reach their own conclusions.

Acknowledging that protests are an important part of democracy, Mr. Mishra said that students must always remain free to express their views.

“At the same time, the legal tradition teaches us something equally important, namely that when further facts or clarifications emerge, every issue should be reconsidered objectively and with an open mind. There is no inconsistency between expressing a genuine grievance and thereafter fairly considering a clarification,” he added.

Describing convocation ceremonies as important milestones in the lives of graduating students and their families, Mr. Mishra said the choice of whether to attend must rest entirely with the students, adding that no student should be forced either to participate or to stay away.

The latest controversy was triggered by NALSAR students who did not want the Chief Justice of India to be the chief guest at the convocation because of his comments about student protests. The BCI had then sought to penalise students for their “campaign” against the CJI, who later slammed the BCI’s actions as well.

The BCI chairman emphasised that differences between the judiciary, the Bar, universities, and law students should not be allowed to damage their relationship in the long term. Disagreements should ultimately be addressed through dialogue, clarification, and mutual respect, he said.

Mr. Mishra appealed for the issue to be approached with an attitude of fairness and reconciliation. “The issue should not be allowed to acquire a political or extraneous colour through outside influence. Our law students are mature and discerning enough to examine the facts, consider the clarification offered, and take their own independent decision,” he added.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.