Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A young child sprints through Mumbai with the Tricolour held high, radiating joy during the Independence Day celebrations on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: Emmanual Yogini

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Saturday (August 15, 2026) was replete with a seven-point reform plan called “Saptadhara” and an outreach to the youth through AI skilling and free online coaching, in an attempt to answer anxieties related to the post-globalisation economy.

In his 13th address to the nation — the first in 80 years that saw Vande Mataram preceding the national anthem — the Prime Minister directly spoke to some of the challenges facing India’s economy, security and domestic anxieties with regard to the youth, employment, and the advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI).

Kerala Chief Minister V.D. Satheesan, during the Independence Day celebrations at Central Stadium in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday (August 15, 2026), called upon people to become “guardians and fighters of a strong democracy founded on open-mindedness, tolerance, debate, self-correction and innovation.” Remembering the flood victims, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday (August 15, 2026) said the State government was preparing a comprehensive rehabilitation plan for the flood-affected families.

This Independence Day, perhaps the most important reminder for us as citizens is that democracy is rebuilt and sustained through dialogue and interaction. When people across socio-economic and political backgrounds connect, share grief and laughter, make friends, chat and get to know one another, they begin to build something more fundamental: trust.

Explore how protests, community kitchens, and shared experiences are fostering trust and connections among diverse groups in India.

India’s global partners, including France, Russia and Australia, on Saturday (August 15, 2026) extended greetings to the country on its 80 th Independence Day, reaffirming their commitment to strengthening bilateral ties and regional cooperation.

World leaders, including Macron and Putin, extend heartfelt greetings to India on its 80th Independence Day, celebrating strong ties.

“Red Fort is not a place from where one should speak lies,” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday (August 15, 2026) hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his pitch for women’s reservation bill in his Independence Day speech saying the legislation was already passed in 2023 and the government should implement it in the 2027 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections.

Mr. Yadav also claimed that Partition is a cause for celebration for the BJP.

In his speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Modi urged political parties to rise above differences to help secure 33 per cent reservation for women in legislatures.

Speaking to reporters at the Samajwadi Party office here, Yadav said, “One should not speak lies from the Red Fort. It is not the place from where lies should be spoken.”

On the occasion of the 80th Independence Day, 41 police officers and personnel were honoured for outstanding services, officials said.

According to the police, 41 police officers and personnel of Gurugram Police were presented commendations and honours for their outstanding, commendable and dedicated services. The honoured police personnel have made notable contributions in maintaining law and order and controlling crime.

Among the honoured police personnel, ASI Rajendra was specially honoured for making the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty.

Odisha Chief Minister Mohan Charan Majhi on Saturday (August 15, 2026) advised youths to focus on their career, instead of being influenced by “external forces” that do not want to see India as a strong nation, while asserting that only Prime Minister Narendra Modi can solve their problems.

Addressing a State-level event here marking the 80th Independence Day, the Chief Minister made five major announcements, including removing the maximum limit of six chances for the State civil service exam. Aspirants can now appear in the exam till they reach the upper age limit.

He also announced compassionate recruitment following the death of government employees, creating three lakh employment opportunities in the next two to three years, which will be extended to 20 lakh in the next five years.

BJP MP Anurag Thakur on Saturday accused the Congress leadership of showing “deep discomfort” with the full rendition of Vande Mataram at the party headquarters on Independence Day and demanded that the Congress apologise to the nation, alleging that its leaders insulted the National Song.

“Today, the Congress leadership has once again demonstrated its deep discomfort with the full rendition of ‘Vande Mataram’. This is not merely a matter o