Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A drone view shows job aspirants and students taking out a massive ‘Tiranga Yatra’ procession to protest against the Jharkhand government over the JPSC and JSSC-CGL exam paper leak issues at Albert Ekka Chowk, in Ranchi, on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

Students, protesting against alleged irregularities in Jharkhand recruitment examinations, on Saturday (August 15, 2026), accused the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the Congress of playing politics over their issues and announced that they would gherao Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s residence in Ranchi on August 20, demanding his resignation.

The protesters also said that they would burn effigies of the Chief Minister and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi across all 24 districts of the State on Sunday (August 16, 2026), alleging that the ruling JMM-Congress alliance “failed to take concrete action” on their demands.

They also demanded that Mr. Gandhi withdraw support from the JMM-led coalition if the “CM is not listening” to him.

Students march with the national flag from Jaipal Singh Munda Stadium to Albert Ekka Chowk to demand cancellation of the JSSC CLG and JPSC papers on the day of the 80th Independence Day, in Ranchi on August 16, 2026. | Photo Credit: ANI

They took out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ranchi on Saturday (August 15, 2026) to mark the country’s 80th Independence Day and to press their demand for greater transparency and reforms in the recruitment examination system.

The protest under JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch entered its 22nd day, with thousands of students and job aspirants, including two wheelchair-borne demonstrators who were on fast, participating in the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ from Jaipal Singh Munda Stadium, the site of the ongoing agitation, to Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. Carrying the national flags, the protesters raised slogans such as “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” and “Vande Mataram”.

Specially-abled job aspirants in wheelchairs lead a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ procession taken out by students and job seekers under the banner of JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch near Albert Ekka Chowk on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

“We will gherao the Chief Minister’s residence on August 20. We seek his resignation as both the JMM and the Congress are playing politics with us. We also demand that Rahul Gandhi withdraw support from the JMM-led coalition if the CM is not listening to him,” JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch leader Ravindra Paswan said.

The protesters said they would not withdraw the demonstration until the government addresses their demands, including the cancellation of examinations in which alleged irregularities were found and an independent probe into the recruitment process.

The platform of the protesting students has sought a CBI investigation or an inquiry by a panel of retired judges from outside Jharkhand into the alleged exam irregularities. The JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch has also demanded cancellation of the JSSC-CGL test and certain Jharkhand PSC examinations that it considers suspicious.

The protesters appealed to students across Jharkhand to assemble in Ranchi for the proposed gherao of the CM’s residence on August 20 and said they would not withdraw agitation until their demands are met.

Jharkhand student protesters plan ‘Tiranga Yatra’ to spread message of unity

Jharkhand exam stir: Police lodge FIR against more than 500 unidentified protesters

Years of delayed exams, bribery allegations provoke Jharkhand protests

They also targeted Mr. Gandhi, saying he had expressed support for students but that “no concrete action” had followed.

The students’ platform demanded that Congress withdraw support from the JMM-led government if it is unwilling to act on their concerns.

“We demanded CM Hemant Soren’s resignation as the government failed to cancel JSSC-CGL and the JPSC examinations in which irregularities were found,” the student leader said.

Jharkhand protest / Jharkhand / Jharkhand Mukti Morcha / test/examination

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.