Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A video grab shows police personnel restraining student leader Devendra Nath Mahto as he attempts to leave the ICU of Sadar Hospital to participate in a 'Tiranga Yatra' on the occasion of Independence Day in Ranchi on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

Jharkhand Loktantrik Krantikari Morcha (JLKM) leader Devendra Nath Mahto, who has been undergoing treatment at Ranchi Sadar Hospital, has slammed the police for stopping him when he tried to take part in the Tiranga Yatra organised by the protesting students on the occasion of 80th Independence Day on August 15, 2026.

Mr. Mahto, who is leading the faction of JPSC-JSSC Nyay Manch, has been on a hunger strike for the past 14 days in support of the demands raised by the students over alleged irregularities in the recruitment examination in Jharkhand.

When the police did not allow him to leave the room where he was admitted, an altercation took place between police personnel and Mr. Mahto. The JLKM leader alleged that he sustained an injury to his chest while being stopped and jostled by the police. Mr. Mahto also alleged that the police assaulted and beat up his associates who came to rescue him.

He also shared the footage of the altercation on his official social media account.

VIDEO | Ranchi: Devendra Nath Mahto, who has been on a hunger strike for the past 14 days over the alleged recruitment exam irregularities in Jharkhand, claims police are not allowing him to attend the Tiranga Yatra. (Source: Third Party) pic.twitter.com/4MsYf7PBkM

“For 14 days, I have been on a hunger strike, and today the police tried to push and forcefully stop me along with my companions. The police also assaulted my people who were with me. Despite being hungry for several days, I stand firm for my rights and the voice of the people. They cannot silence our voice by stopping us in this manner,” Mr. Mahto wrote on X.

He further said, “Despite being on a hunger strike for 14 days, the way the entire police force came down aggressively just for expressing a desire to hoist the national flag and participate in the Tiranga Yatra raises several serious questions on this day of Independence. During this time, my people were also brutally beaten and thrashed to the ground. Is this the free India we gained from the sacrifices of Lord Birsa Munda and Bhagat Singh? Is this the form of India that Subhas Chandra Bose, Khudiram Bose, Chandrashekhar Azad, Mahatma Gandhi, and Baba Saheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar dreamed of?”

After the alleged assault, Mr. Mahto, along with his people, sat down on dharna right outside his room.

“Until I am allowed to leave from here, I will keep sitting right here. I will not even get my treatment done, and I will stay here to raise my concern. My fight is for the rights of the people and for justice. They (Police) cannot silence my voice by stopping me,”Mr. Mahto said.

Later, he spoke to his party supremo and MLA Tiger Jairam Mahto over a video call and narrated his ordeal, how he was stopped by the police and allegedly assaulted.

“The answer will be sought from the government on the floor of the House. On the 80th Independence Day in free India, why was a protester, who has been on a hunger strike for 14 days, prevented from hoisting the flag? Why was he stopped from joining the Tiranga Yatra? And why is he not being given the freedom to seek treatment as per his own wish? The answer to all these questions will be sought from the government on the floor of the house,” Mr. Mahto said in the post later in the day.

Mr. Mahto was highlighted earlier when educationist Sonam Wangchuk spoke to him over a video call and urged him to end his fast on August 5, 2026. Also, Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) founder Abhijeet Dipke had spoken to him over a video call, inquiring about the protest.

Repeated attempts to contact Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rakesh Ranjan and Ranchi City SP Paras Rana proved futile.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.