This book explores new methods of time management to boost personal productivity

‘Dimagi naxals’: The freedom to disagree is a political right – and is economically valuable

Youth protests: SC forms panel to probe police excesses, violence against security forces

Ashoka University and Oxford’s Balliol College announce a new £10,000 prize in creative nonfiction

Why Gen Alpha protests show India’s official school data is unreliable

Pakistan honours two Mumbai doctors who kept Jinnah’s terminal illness secret before Partition

For the bar and the bench, why is the Constitution inadequate?

Nathuram Godse was active member of RSS, VD Savarkar’s grandnephew tells Pune court

‘Court can’t decide if Savarkar was brave’: Researcher asks HC to halt trial against Rahul Gandhi

‘Modi Chalisa’ recited at event in Delhi Press Club, PM depicted as Hindu deity

The Israeli military on Wednesday admitted that its soldiers had opened fire on a vehicle with five-year-old Hind Rajab and six family members on board in Gaza in January 2024, saying that it has ordered a criminal investigation into their killings.

Rajab and her family were fleeing Gaza city when their vehicle was shelled by the Israeli forces. Rajab was trapped inside the car and found dead 12 days later after Israeli forces withdrew from the area. Six of her family members and two paramedics who were trying to rescue them were also killed.

Research agency Forensics Architecture and audio investigations group Earshot said that they mapped 335 bullet holes on the body of the car.

Rajab’s killing became a global symbol of the suffering faced by the children in Gaza because of the conflict.

The incident took place while Israel carried out unprecedented air and ground strikes on Gaza, leaving more than 73,300 persons dead. The Israeli military’s offensive in Gaza had begun in October 2023 after the Palestinian militant group Hamas killed 1,200 persons during its incursion into southern Israel and took hostages.

On Wednesday, the Israeli military said that the findings of an internal examination indicate that its soldiers “fired at a vehicle that was approaching them while travelling contrary to the advanced notice that had been published in an announcement by the IDF spokesperson to residents of the area”.

Following a review of the findings and “due to alleged failures in the coordination of the movement of the Palestine Red Crescent ambulance, it has been decided to initiate a criminal investigation” of the incident by the military police criminal investigation division, the Israel Defense Forces said.

The Israel Defense Forces had previously denied involvement in the killing. Months after the incident, it had said that a preliminary probe found that its forces were “not present near the vehicle or within firing range” of the car, CNN reported.

On Wednesday, Tel Aviv said that it will also investigate the killing of 15 paramedics in Rafah city in March 2025.

In September 2025, the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry said that Israel committed genocide against Palestinians in Gaza.

In June, commission said that the Israeli military had deliberately targeted and killed Palestinian children to commit a genocide. The Israeli forces have killed more than 20,000 children and injured 44,000 since October 2023, the panel said.

In its report, the panel included the killing of Rajab as an example of the genocidal acts.

Corrections and clarifications: This article has been updated to quote the Israeli military as having admitted that its soldiers fired at Rajab’s car.

Pro-Palestine NGO files complaint in India against Israeli soldier vacationing in the country

‘The Voice of Hind Rajab’ speaks to India’s buried conscience