Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to lift a federal judge's temporary restraining order blocking the U.S. Postal Service from implementing the administration's plans to restrict mail-in voting. President Trump issued an executive order in March calling for the Department of Homeland Security to develop lists of adult U.S. citizens in each state and for the USPS to refuse to deliver mail-in ballots when state election officials don't turn over these lists. Last week, the Supreme Court addressed a procedural issue about one of the lawsuits related to the order. Now, the administration is asking the court to weigh in on its legality. North Carolina starts mailing out its absentee ballots today, officially kicking off this year's midterm voting season. Here's what you need to know about the current state of mail-in voting.

An election worker processes mail-in ballots in June in Industry, Calif. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images hide caption

The IRS has proposed a rule that would revoke the tax-exempt status of private schools and colleges that have programs designed to help students based on race. Many institutions currently offer programs to support Black or Latino students who may be the first in their families to attend college. Some also aim to foster a diverse student body by offering scholarships and other initiatives. The administration argues these programs amount to racial discrimination.

Federal prosecutors have charged an ICE officer with six counts of making false statements for allegedly lying to investigators about the shooting of a Venezuelan man in Minnesota earlier this year. The sealed criminal case was confirmed by a source not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. In January, during the broad immigration crackdown in Minnesota known as Operation Metro Surge, officer Christian Castro fired his weapon through a closed door, shooting Julio Sosa-Celis in the leg. Castro initially claimed under oath that Sosa-Celis attacked him, but surveillance footage contradicted his claim.

Diesel prices have hit a record high with a national average of $5.85 per gallon, according to AAA. This spike surpasses the $5.81 diesel prices reached in June 2022, a few months after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. A gallon now costs up to $2 more than it did just before the Iran war. Much of the industrial supply chain relies on diesel, and the increased costs may trickle down to consumers. Farming equipment relies heavily on diesel, and the rising cost of farming will eventually make food more expensive. About 90% of U.S. school buses run on diesel, and many school district budgets are strained as the new academic year begins.

Go face-to-face with the person of the moment. NPR's Newsmakers video podcast brings the biggest names in politics, business, sports, arts, and culture out of the headlines and into the interview chair to discuss the mark they're making on the world. Follow the Newsmakers podcast or subscribe to NPR's YouTube channel to get new episodes as soon as they're available.

Comedian Robby Hoffman says she doesn't yet know if there's any topic that's "off limits" in her work. But she does know she doesn't want to lie. She's gained popularity for her no-holds-barred approach to comedy, her roles in shows like Hacks and her Netflix special Wake Up. But she's also gotten backlash for some of her comments, including lengthy jokes about the non-binary community. Hoffman, who describes herself as "somebody who's clearly in the queer space," tells NPR's Juana Summers that it's fair for people to be mad, but she wants to talk about the things she experiences day to day. On NPR's Newsmakers, Hoffman discusses how she copes with and explores life through jokes and how she got her start in the comedy business.

Watch or listen to the interview or read the article about their discussion.

Cher Álvarez stars as Lou, part of a couple being haunted in the play Paranormal Activity. Matthew Murphy/Matthew Murphy hide caption

Check out what NPR is watching, reading and listening to this weekend:

🍿 Movies: The horror-thriller It Ends follows four friends who find themselves on a road that winds through a dense forest, and it seems to never end.

📺 TV: The new show Sterling Point features a mysterious inheritance, a teen love triangle and deep generational lies and secrets.

📚 Books: This month brings a plethora of new books. NPR has a preview of some of the offerings, which include three Pulitzer Prize winners, a Booker Prize winner and two Booker longlisted authors. Nearly all of them have had their works adapted for the screen, or expect to soon.

🎵 Music: Erykah Badu and the Alchemist's long-awaited collaborative album, Before The World Blows, begins with a 7-minute incantation titled "Echos.