After more than a week since the devastating flash floods in Nepal, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) shared an update on missing Indian nationals on Friday. While 275 Indians remain missing, 166 others were rescued after the floods along the Nepal-Tibet border last month.

The Indian government said that 1,907 Indians have safely crossed over to Nepal from China, leaving no traveller stranded.

MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said India has supplied around 95 tonnes of relief material to Nepal since the flash floods on August 26.

"As per our information, 275 Indian nationals remain missing. We continue to be in close touch with the Nepali government," Jaiswal said during the latest media briefing.

"We deeply appreciate the efforts of the Nepalese authorities in this regard. So far, 166 Indian nationals have been rescued and 1,907 Indian nationals have safely crossed into Nepal from China," he said.

"As per official sources in China, there are no Indian travellers who are stranded in the Tibetan Autonomous Region in China," Jaiswal added.

The MEA spokesperson said India will continue to provide assistance to Nepal in this hour of need. "We do plan to send more forensic kits, Bailey bridges and other materials that are requested by the government of Nepal," he said.

Jaiswal said India has already supplied around 95 tonnes of relief material on seven aircraft to Nepal. "In addition to the relief material, we have also sent 54 personnel to support relief and rescue efforts in Nepal. This comprises 30 tunnel rescue experts, 19 forensic experts, and a five-member medical team. Our rescue and forensic teams are deployed on the ground, and they are working closely with the Nepalese authorities," he added.

At least 1,295 people were killed in the floods in Nepal districts, reported Nepalese authorities. Several bodies were recovered by the rescue workers.

More than 12,000 people have been rescued from the affected areas. However, almost 5,000 remain missing as rescue operations are still underway.

The floods have damaged 35 motorable bridges, 45 suspension bridges and 40 km of black-topped roads, affecting parts of central Nepal, according to local authorities.

According to a report by the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Authority (NDRRMA), more than 32,000 people and properties have been affected by the flash floods.

A detailed assessment of the damage is yet to be released publicly.

The floods were triggered by an ice-rock avalanche near the Nepal-Tibet border.

Sneha Biswas specialises in covering entertainment and pop culture, with a specialisation on Bollywood, Hollywood, OTT platforms, K-pop, K-dramas, and major developments in the US entertainment industry. She believes in telling stories that balance speed with substance, and in making entertainment journalism contextual, culturally aware, and reader-first rather than purely reactive.<br><br> With over six years of experience in digital media, Sneha currently serves as a Deputy Chief Content Producer at Live Mint. She has spent more than three and a half years with the HT Group and returned to the organisation in February 2025, joining Live Mint to uplift the entertainment section. Over the past year, she has been closely involved in entertainment coverage including breaking news, explainers, trend reporting, box office reports and analysis for the audience.<br><br> Sneha is Google News certified, having completed training focused on newsroom best practices, digital reporting, and SEO-driven content strategies. Her work reflects a strong understanding of audience behaviour, search trends, and the evolving consumption patterns of entertainment news across formats.<br><br> Prior to her current role, Sneha has worked across multiple content and editorial functions within digital newsrooms, building expertise in content planning, editing, and real-time coverage. Her professional interests lie at the intersection of entertainment, internet culture, and global pop trends.<br><br> Working for the National city team, Biswas closely follows global entertainment movements while maintaining a strong pulse on what is happening in India.

Stay updated with the latest Trending, India, World and US news.

Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.

Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.