Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, Bengaluru | Photo Credit: File Photo

The Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has designated Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru as the nodal centre for collecting DNA samples from first-degree relatives of victims from Karnataka reported missing in Nepal.

The decision has been taken to facilitate the identification and repatriation of mortal remains of foreign nationals in Nepal, following a September 1 press note issued by the Embassy of India in Kathmandu.

According to an order issued by KSDMA, the hospital will coordinate the verification of first-degree relationships between relatives and missing victims and collect DNA samples for profiling and further processing.

Dr. Nagesh Kuppast, Professor and Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, has been designated as the nodal officer. He will be responsible for verifying the relationship of those providing samples with the victims and overseeing the collection of samples. Dr. Vadiraj B. Pokkan, Resident Medical Officer, has also been designated as a coordinating doctor.

KSDMA has advised relatives to carry a recent passport-size photograph, government-issued identity proof such as Aadhaar, and other relevant documents establishing their identity and relationship with the missing person.

The collected samples will be forwarded to the Forensic Science Laboratory for DNA profiling and comparison with DNA profiles from unidentified mortal remains in Nepal, as per the prescribed procedure.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.