Ex-bureaucrat says he was booked over X post for ‘provocation’, asks if BJP will face same action

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Rush Hour: Satyendar Jain gets bail, Raghav Chadha claims name deleted in Punjab SIR and more

Bengal wants to open 1,000 RSS-run schools in a year, says CM Suvendu Adhikari

‘The Magic Faraway Tree’ review: An enchanting adaptation of the Enid Blyton stories

A mysterious disease spread like wildfire and killed 29 Adivasi children. What was it?

‘Mirzapur the Movie’ review: Big-screen version of the web series stands on its own bloodied feet

Why Bangladesh should not join the Mecca Pact just to appease Pakistan or send a signal to India

A new book shows that in 1881, the Mysore Representative Assembly was already pursuing self-rule

Rush Hour: Ex-bureaucrat booked for X post, Hindutva influencer held for assault at protest & more

The Delhi Police has detained a Hindutva influencer who allegedly assaulted the father of a student activist during the youth protests at Jantar Mantar, PTI quoted unidentified officers as saying.

This came after a purported video of the influencer, Swatantra Bharadwaj, claiming that a call from Delhi minister Kapil Mishra helped him avoid arrest over the assault sparked a row.

On July 23, Sanjay Kumar, the father of student activist Nishu Aazad, was assaulted at Jantar Mantar during demonstrations against alleged irregularities in competitive examinations.

Recently, a purported video of Bharadwaj that was widely shared online showed him claiming that he was not jailed despite having “cracked the skull” of Kumar.

Following the controversy over the video, members of the Cockroach Janta Party staged a protest on Friday outside the Parliament Street police station, demanding that charges under provisions relating to attempt to murder be added to the first information report registered in the case.

CJP co-convenor Saurav Das said that the additional deputy commissioner of police had promised to adding charges of attempt to murder and provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act to the case, PTI reported.

“Goons like Swatantra Bharadwaj came to Jantar Mantar,” ANI quoted Das as saying. “Did Delhi Police not identify them? He committed attempt to murder. Delhi Police is saving him, no action was taken.”

Meanwhile, Bharadwaj has claimed that he acted in self-defence and had he not done so he could have “lynched by the mob or killed”.

“There was no attempt to attack [Kumar],” ANI quoted him as saying. “I have proof in the form of videos. I was gheraoed by 10-15 people. When I acted in self-defence, he was hit on the head.”

He added: “As per his medical report from Delhi Police, he did not suffer major injuries.”