The United Arab Emirates and seven other countries on Sunday condemned Israel's rejection of President Donald Trump's plan to end the war in the Gaza Strip.

It comes a week after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rejected the 15-point plan for Gaza, stating that no military pullout will happen until Hamas is "genuinely" disarmed.

Trump's Board of Peace said last month that it had reached a deal for the complete disarmament of Hamas and other armed groups in Gaza.

The foreign ministers of the UAE, Qatar, Jordan, Indonesia, Pakistan, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Egypt issued their joint statement as Trump's envoy and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Nickolay Mladenov, Trump's Board of Peace envoy for Gaza, were in Egypt for Gaza ceasefire-related talks.

Trump announced last month that there had been a breakthrough on a 15-point road map aimed at ending the war in the Gaza Strip.

The plan drawn up by his Board of Peace calls for Israeli troops to withdraw as Hamas gives up its weapons. An international stabilization force would then work alongside a new Palestinian police force to secure Gaza.

"Rejecting the Road Map constitutes an explicit refusal to proceed with the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, and directly threatens to derail the extensive efforts exerted by US President Trump to bring an end to the war in Gaza and establish the conditions for lasting peace," the foreign ministers said in their Sunday statement.

"Such rejection confirms that Israel now bears responsibility for obstructing the efforts to bring peace in Gaza and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory," they added.

They called on the Board of Peace and the US "to take immediate and concrete measures within its mandate to uphold the integrity of the Comprehensive Plan and prevent any party from obstructing its implementation."

Kushner met Hamas chief, Khalil al-Hayya, on Sunday according to several news agencies citing unnamed sources.

Kushner and Mladenov were in Egypt and met with mediators from Egypt, Qatar and Turkey to discuss implementation of the deal.

Hamas on July 30 avoided using the term "disarmament," but said it would hand over its weapons to a new Palestinian governing body that would govern Gaza under the supervision of the Board of Peace.

The group, which is designated as a terrorist organization by several countries and the EU, called on mediators and the Board of Peace to "compel" Israel to approve the road map for next steps.

Netanyahu previously said Israel remained in talks with Washington despite its objections to the peace plan.

"They have ideas; some of them are acceptable to us and some are not, and we know how to stand our ground on these matters," said the Israeli prime minister.

To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google, so you'll always see our verified news first.