Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Congress General Secretary Jairam Ramesh launched a sharp attack on the Home Minister, accusing him of attempting to divert attention from more pressing issues. File. | Photo Credit: Shiv Kumar Pushpakar

The Congress on Sunday (August 16, 2026) strongly rebutted Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s charge that the party had insulted the National Song Vande Mataram, asserting that it has always respected the song and accusing the BJP of trying to manufacture a political controversy.

The fresh exchange came a day after a row erupted during Independence Day celebrations at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters in New Delhi, where Congress Parliamentary Party chairperson Sonia Gandhi was seen gesturing towards party president Mallikarjun Kharge while Vande Mataram was being sung.

Addressing a public gathering in Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, Mr. Shah accused the Congress of disrespecting the National Song and demanded an apology from the party. Referring to a footage from the Independence Day function, he alleged that Ms. Gandhi had asked the Congress president to stop the song midway.

“We all saw it on television,” Mr. Shah said, adding that Ms. Gandhi should apologise to the people of the country and to the “immortal soul” of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, author of Vande Mataram. He said thousands of freedom fighters had faced bullets, lathis and imprisonment for raising the slogan during the freedom struggle.

Responding to the charge, Congress general secretary (organisation) K. C. Venugopal dismissed the allegation and maintained that the party’s commitment to Vande Mataram was beyond doubt.

ALSO WATCH Watch: Amit Shah attacks Sonia Gandhi over ‘Vande Mataram’ row

Speaking to presspersons in Kollam, Kerala, Mr. Venugopal said the controversy had arisen out of a misunderstanding. “For the BJP, everything is political. For us, it is emotional. What happened at the AICC headquarters was a communication issue. We are people who respect Vande Mataram. The Congress has a clear stand on Vande Mataram, and you will understand it in due course,” he said.

Congress General Secretary (communications) Jairam Ramesh also launched a sharp attack on the Home Minister, accusing him of attempting to divert attention from more pressing issues.

In a post on social media platform X, Mr. Ramesh said: “A man who insulted Dr. Ambedkar on the floor of the Rajya Sabha on December 17, 2024. A man who belongs to an ideology that did not see fit to unfurl the tiranga at its headquarters till January 2002. A man who orchestrated the Delhi Police’s brutalities on peacefully protesting youth. Such a man is now demanding an apology from the Congress to divert attention away from the real issues of the day and away from the colossal failures of his and his Sahib’s.”

The BJP, however, continued to press the issue. Earlier in the day, BJP leaders lodged a formal complaint against Ms. Gandhi at the Urwa Police Station in Karnataka over the events during the rendition of Vande Mataram at the Congress headquarters. A police complaint was also filed in New Delhi police station.

The controversy has acquired added significance following recent changes to the legal and administrative framework governing the National Song. In July, Parliament passed the Prevention of Insults to National Honour (Amendment) Act, 2026, which makes attempts to stop or prevent the singing or playing of Vande Mataram an offence. The legislation also accords the national song a status on par with the national anthem, Jana Gana Mana.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.