NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday stepped up its attack on Union home minister Amit Shah after he alleged that veteran leader Sonia Gandhi committed a sin by stopping national song Vande Mataram midway at the party headquarters on Independence Day.In a social media post on X, Congress general secretary Jairam Ramesh said Shah was demanding an apology from Sonia Gandhi to divert attention from real issues and the government's massive failures.Without naming Shah, Jairam Ramesh said, "A man who insulted Dr. Ambedkar in the Rajya Sabha on December 17, 2024. A man who comes from that ideology which, until January 2002, did not even deem it appropriate to hoist the tricolour at its headquarters. A man who is directly responsible for the brutality of the Delhi Police against youths protesting peacefully.""Now the same man is demanding an apology from the Congress to divert attention from today's real issues and the massive failures of himself and his master," he added.This came hours after Shah accused Sonia Gandhi of stopping the national song midway at the Congress headquarters during the Independence Day celebrations and said that people would never forget the "sin" she had committed.Referring to a video from the Congress headquarters, Shah said, "Look at their (Congress's) shamelessness. The national song Vande Mataram was being sung at the Congress party headquarters. During the song, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi told the Congress president to stop singing. We all just kept watching on TV.""Sonia ji, 140 crore people are watching you. This sin you have committed will never be forgiven by the people of this country. How can anyone even dream of leaving the national song Vande Mataram incomplete? The people of Congress should feel ashamed. If there is any shame left, you should fold your hands and apologise to Bankim Babu’s immortal spirit and the people," he added.Earlier on Saturday, visuals from the Independence Day programme at the Congress headquarters showed senior party leaders speaking among themselves while Vande Mataram was being recited.The BJP criticised their conduct, alleging that it amounted to disrespect towards the National Song.BJP leader Amit Malviya alleged that Sonia Gandhi had objected to the full rendition of the National Song during the Independence Day event at the Congress headquarters.Malviya claimed that Sonia Gandhi became "agitated" after the initial stanzas were sung and asked for the rendition to be stopped, while Rahul Gandhi also appeared to signal that it should end. He alleged that the song was nevertheless allowed to continue and was eventually sung in full."For the first time, the entire 'Vande Mataram' was sung at the Congress headquarters on Independence Day. After the initial stanzas of Vande Mataram were sung, Sonia Gandhi became agitated and asked for the rendition to be stopped rather than played in full. Rahul Gandhi too appeared to signal that it should end," Malviya said.However, the Congress asserted that Sonia Gandhi's actions had nothing to do with the national song played at the venue. The party maintained that she was merely trying to ensure that the correct arrangements for Vande Mataram were followed at the event.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.