Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A drone view shows job aspirants and students taking out a massive ‘Tiranga Yatra’ procession to protest against the Jharkhand government over the JPSC and JSSC-CGL exam paper leak issues at Albert Ekka Chowk, in Ranchi, on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

Protesting students burnt the effigies of Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on the 23rd day of their protest at Jaipal Singh Munda Stadium in Ranchi, alleging that the State government was not serious about their demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into alleged irregularities in competitive exams for government jobs.

Beyond Ranchi, effigies were also burnt in other districts, with students shouting slogans against the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led government and against the Congress, which had reportedly promised to withdraw support to the State government if it did not address their demands by Independence Day.

Hundreds of students have gathered at the stadium in the State capital since July 25, demanding a CBI inquiry into alleged irregularities in the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) Combined Civil Services Examination, and the Jharkhand General Graduate Level Combined Competitive Examination, also known as the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission-Combined Graduate Level (JSSC-CGL) exam, among others

Ravindra Paswan, the leader of the JPSC-JSSC Reform Manch, said that when the students’ agitation began, Mr. Gandhi, the Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, had assured them that if Mr. Soren did not take any positive steps regarding their demands or provide a satisfactory response by August 15, the Congress would withdraw its support to the JMM-led government. However, even after August 15, the government has not taken any concrete steps to address their demands, Mr. Paswan said.

Students march with the national flag from Jaipal Singh Munda Stadium to Albert Ekka Chowk to demand cancellation of the JSSC CLG and JPSC papers on the day of the 80th Independence Day, in Ranchi on August 16, 2026. | Photo Credit: ANI

“We have already announced that if the government does not listen to our demands by August 18, we will gherao the CM’s residence on August 20. We have no other option left,” the protest leader said.

Kumar Rajat, the Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) of Ranchi Sadar, and Dhananjay Kumar, Additional District Magistrate (ADM), Law and Order, both met the protesting students at the site in the evening with the government’s proposals.

Mr. Rajat confirmed in a WhatsApp message to The Hindu that students have been invited by the government to hold talks between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Monday (August 17, 2026), at the State Guest House in Ranchi. This would be the fourth round of meetings with the government.

Specially-abled job aspirants in wheelchairs lead a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ procession taken out by students and job seekers under the banner of JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch near Albert Ekka Chowk on August 15, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

The Leader of Opposition in the Jharkhand Assembly Babulal Marandi posted a video of the effigy burning by demonstrators on X. “The students have given a clear message to Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Rahul Gandhi through the effigy burning that they are not ones to bow down,” Mr. Marandi said in his post.

“They have been doing peaceful protests for the last 22 days and demanding a CBI investigation into job selling in JPSC and JSSC. The anti-student face of Congress-JMM-RJD is exposed now. In front of the student power and their struggle, the government’s arrogance has shattered. Now there will be a decisive fight; those playing with the students’ future will not escape this time,” he added.

Jharkhand student protesters plan ‘Tiranga Yatra’ to spread message of unity

Jharkhand exam stir: Police lodge FIR against more than 500 unidentified protesters

Years of delayed exams, bribery allegations provoke Jharkhand protests

Jharkhand protest / Jharkhand / Jharkhand Mukti Morcha / test/examination / Ranchi

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.