NEW DELHI: A Jharkhand protester, in a unique show of symbolism, shaved his head after burning the effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren, Lok Sabha LoP Rahul Gandhi and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, calling himself their "younger brother", who is "mourning" the "dead" leaders.Amid the deadlock between the students protesting against irregularties in the state examination and its selection process, Baha Linda, who shaved his head, said: "These people are like the dead. They only develop their own families; they are trapped in dynastic politics. They garner votes from Jharkhand but develop only their own families, so one cannot expect much from the dead... I shaved my head."Targeting CM Hemant Soren and Rahul Gandhi, whose Congress is the part of the Jharkhand government, the protestor said: "I am the younger brother of Rahul Gandhi and Hemant Soren. It is my duty to dedicate my body, mind, and resources to their final rites... Once their cremation is over and the ashes remain, I will be the one who has to stand up and immerse them in the Swarnarekha Ghat to fulfill a younger brother's duty. You cannot expect anything from the dead.""I am observing mourning for my elder brothers Rahul and Hemant Ji," he further told news agency ANI.Earlier, students protesting against alleged irregularities in Jharkhand's recruitment examinations burned the effigies of CM Hemant Soren, Lok Sabha leader of opposition (LoP) Rahul Gandhi, and Tejashwi Yadav.The protest by students and job aspirants over alleged irregularities in Jharkhand recruitment examinations entered its 23rd day on Sunday, with the protesters, under the banner of JPSC-JSSC Reforms Manch, accusing the ruling JMM-Congress alliance of failing to take “concrete action” on their demands.They have also announced plans to gherao Soren's residence in Ranchi on August 20 and demanded his resignation.“We will gherao the chief minister's residence on August 20. We seek his resignation as both the JMM and the Congress are playing politics with us. We also demand that Rahul Gandhi withdraw support from the JMM-led coalition if the CM is not listening to him,” Paswan said.The protesters are seeking cancellation of the JSSC-CGL examination and certain Jharkhand Public Service Commission examinations over alleged irregularities. They have also demanded a CBI probe or an inquiry by a panel of retired judges from outside Jharkhand.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.