Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK) president and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister C. Joseph Vijay on Sunday night strongly condemned the killing of three Tamils in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Chamarajanagar district by the Karnataka Forest Department (in an alleged exchange of fire on Saturday).

In a post on X, Mr. Vijay said Anthony Sami, John Rose Peter and Kumar, who hail from Tamil Nadu, had been living in Hanur taluk of Karnataka. “They were shot dead by Karnataka Forest Department personnel in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary area in the early hours of August 15. I strongly condemn this killing. The explanation given by the Karnataka Forest Department regarding the incident is unacceptable,” he said.

Mr. Vijay also demanded an impartial inquiry into the incident and the constitution of a high-level inquiry committee. Those responsible for the killing should be punished, he said, adding the Karnataka government should provide all necessary assistance to the families of the victims.

He also urged the Karnataka government to take appropriate measures to ensure that such an incident does not recur.

Earlier, DMK president M.K. Stalin questioned the Chief Minister’s “silence” on the incident. He demanded compensation and government jobs for the kin of the deceased.

He alleged that there was an attempt by the Karnataka government to safeguard those involved in the killing. “It should be prevented. A case should be filed, and there should be an impartial judicial inquiry,” he said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.