Philippine firefighters on Friday managed to enter a smoldering ferry in a search for dozens of people still unaccounted for after the vessel caught fire on Wednesday evening, with rescue work complicated by heavy smoke and extreme heat.

The Philippines Coast Guard said that rescuers recovered 30 bodies from a ferry, raising the death toll from the incident to 35.

Earlier, firefighters reported that five people had died, 43 had been rescued, and more than 80 were missing.

On Friday, Coast Guard spokesperson Commodore ⁠Noemi ⁠Cayabyab said that charred remains had been found in the economy accommodation area, but added that the exact number of those found would need to wait for police forensic investigators to examine the remains for recovery and identification.

"We can't provide exact numbers yet on what we saw today," Cayabyab told AFP news agency.

"We will be providing it once we conduct retrieval and recovery," she added.

The ferry "MV June Aster" had originated in Manila, and was nearing its destination, the tourist hotspot of Coron in the western Philippine province of Palawan, when it caught fire just off the coast.

The Philippine Coast Guard updated the number of missing people from 86 to 84 after confirming that two people originally listed on the manifest had not been on board.

Cayabyab told a radio interview earlier Friday that the fire broke out in "seconds."

"From the time that they heard the loud explosion, the appearance of smoke, and then fire. It spread very quickly," she said, citing survivor accounts.

Cayabyab said some of those who made it off the ship did not have time to put on life jackets.

The Coast Guard has deployed several vessels and divers to the incident, while army rescue boats, fishermen and private resort owners have also provided assistance in the search.

The fire began in the cargo hold, and may have moved even more rapidly due to strong winds, Cayabyab added later.

Although the exact cause of the accident has yet to be officially determined, survivors reported hearing explosions inside the ship.

They later said that a small fire quickly escalated and engulfed the vessel.

Some passengers jumped into the sea, where they remained afloat until they were rescued. The vessel caught fire some 7 kilometers (4.5 miles) off the village of Turda.

The ferry was carrying electric cars, motorcycles, cargo, and heavy-duty equipment, as well as provisions for the crew and passengers.

Ferries are one of the most widely used forms of transport in the Philippines, an archipelago made up of 7,600 islands.

The country has a history of maritime accidents, some of which are caused by overcrowding, adverse sailing conditions, and lax safety standards.

Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google by clicking here and hitting the "star" or "preferred" button, so you'll always see our verified news first.