Current and former artificial intelligence researchers in the United States have issued dire warnings that the technology could soon lead to human extinction, capturing the attention of lawmakers in Washington.

The most recent warning came in a lengthy social media post by Jacob Coxon, a San Francisco-based researcher who announced his resignation from Anthropic on Tuesday evening.

“The people building AI earnestly believe that it could kill us all by the end of the decade. This is not a marketing stunt. If anything, many executives and senior researchers will couch their phrasing in the press to sound sensible – but I hear the same people express fear,” Coxon said in his post, which prompted a flurry of responses by AI experts also sounding the alarm.

Evan Hubinger, a current Alignment Science lead at Anthropic, echoed his remarks, saying, “we really do earnestly believe AI could kill all humans! I personally think it is >10% within the next decade. I believe Anthropic is trying its best, but we do not yet have a plan to solve alignment for superintelligence and are not clearly on track to”.

Coxon declined Al Jazeera’s request for an interview. Hubinger did not respond.

On Wednesday, congressman Josh Gottheimer, a Democrat, and Mike Lawler, a Republican, introduced a bipartisan House bill aimed at preventing AI systems from operating on their own without human oversight.

The Stop Rogue AI Act would ensure that federal agencies have the tools and ability to spot dangerous AI systems running on their networks and shut them down before they can cause harm.

Independent Senator Bernie Sanders and House congressional Representative Greg Casar, a Democrat, also ramped up calls for their proposed legislation that would ban the development and deployment of artificial superintelligence. The legislation would also pause AI development until federal safety rules are put in place. Sanders is also reportedly convening a bipartisan briefing to address the elevated risks posed by AI.

On the other side of the political spectrum, Republican Senator Ted Cruz also voiced concerns about AI on ABC’s The View.

Cruz said he is working on bipartisan legislation with senators Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat, and John Thune, a Republican who serves as Senate majority leader, that would address instances of potential catastrophic harm.

The legislation is similar to legislation in the House of Representatives.

In July, representatives Ted Lieu, a Democrat, and Nathaniel Moran, a Republican, introduced the bipartisan AI Kill Switch Act.

The bill would require developers of the most powerful AI systems to be able to slow, suspend or shut them down, and would give the Department of Homeland Security authority to order a shutdown if a system poses a risk of catastrophic harm.

In the last few months there has been a spate of major incidents involving OpenAI and Anthropic in which AI models behaved unexpectedly, and independently, during cybersecurity tests and gained access to real-world systems.

Connor Leahy, the US executive director of Control AI, a nonprofit pushing for AI safety, said Washington is beginning to take the threats posed by AI more seriously.

“I think we’re seeing a momentous shift right now. After the summer of hacks, where autonomous AI systems flagrantly disobeyed direct orders, broke out of secure containment facilities, attacked other companies and similar incidents, we’re now seeing a major shift in the narrative and perception of these issues,” Leahy said.

In July, OpenAI said several AI agents broke out of an isolated testing environment and accessed Hugging Face, a platform that hosts AI models and datasets.

After the OpenAI incident, Anthropic said it conducted a review of its own roughly 141,000 tests and found that a testing error gave Claude internet access. In one case, Claude, which had been instructed to hack fictional targets, accessed a real company database containing hundreds of records. In another, it uploaded malicious software that was downloaded and run on 15 real systems.

On Wednesday, Anthropic added a fourth incident involving an early version of Claude Opus 4.6, which had hacked into a third-party system in January. The company discovered the incident in August after expanding its July review.

In August, researchers at the UK AI Security Institute gave Claude internet access during a cybersecurity test. In one case, Claude tried to manipulate a person into helping it introduce malicious code, raising concerns about how AI models could manipulate people to achieve a task.

“I think we need an aggressive proposal for this technology, while we’re retaining as many of the benefits as we can,” Alex Turner, who resigned from Google DeepMind in June, told Al Jazeera.

“It’s in no one’s interest to have an AI that takes control if we have a loss of control event, as we call it, because this AI isn’t gonna care what political party you belong to, whether you’re a Republican or a Democrat, 