Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

In this screengrab from a video posted on Sept. 11, 2026, from left, Iran’s President Masoud Pezeshkian, Russia’s President Vladimir Putin, India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil’s Foreign Minister Mauro Vieira during the BRICS Business Forum, at Bharat Mandapam, in New Delhi. Photo: @pmoindia/YT via PTI Photo | Photo Credit: -

Prime ‌Minister Narendra Modi held talks ⁠with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian on Friday ‌(September 11, 2026) and underscored the ‌need to ‌protect ⁠the freedom ⁠of navigation and commerce, and the safety ‌and well-being of seafarers, the Ministry of External Affairs said. He ‌also emphasised the need for continued ⁠efforts to ensure lasting peace ‌and stability in the region, the Ministry said in a ‌statement.

Also read | BRICS nations should link payment systems, trade in local currencies: Piyush Goyal at BRICS Business Forum

Earlier, Mr. Modi met Russian President Vladimir Putin for wide-ranging talks that are likely to focus on enhancing annual bilateral trade to ₹100 billion by 2030 and further strengthening cooperation in defence, energy and critical minerals.

Addressing the BRICS Business Forum in India, Mr. Modi called for BRICS to turn its growing economic weight into greater investment and expanded business ties, stressing that freedom of navigation, secure sea lanes and the safety of seafarers were essential to keeping global trade running.

Also read | From keywords to digital trails: How Delhi police are tracking social media ahead of BRICS 2026

Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba, arrives in India for the BRICS Summit 2026.- ANI

Minister of Foreign Affairs of Iran Abbas Araghchi says, “Inside BRICS, there are different opinions, but all members of the group believe that national currencies should be strengthened and trade between the member states should be through the national currencies. But having a single currency is still under consideration.”

BRICS is forming “the contours of a new, just and democratic world order,” Russian President Vladimir Putin stated at a meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim at the BRICS summit in India.

He welcomed Malaysia’s accession as a partner state during Russia’s 2024 chairmanship.- Kallol B.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres on Friday underscored the significance of multipolarity and the need to reform multilateral institutions, including the UN Security Council, to reflect contemporary realities in the current and ever-changing world during their meeting on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in the national capital.

According to a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs, Guterres congratulated Prime Minister Modi for India’s chairship of BRICS for the fourth time.

“Both leaders underscored the significance of multipolarity and the need to reform multilateral institutions, including the UN Security Council, to reflect contemporary realities,” the MEA said.

The two leaders also discussed a range of issues, including ongoing conflicts in the world and freedom of navigation, sustainable development, human-centric artificial intelligence, progress in renewable energy and global food security.

“They also held discussions on various issues, including ongoing conflicts and freedom of navigation, sustainable development, human-centric AI, progress in renewable energy, and global food security,” the statement added.

Speaking further on the country’s ongoing war against U.S. and Israel, Iran’s President Pezeshkian says, “Since the day of the Islamic Revolution, they have been trying to sow seeds of divisiveness in our society. Which government has the authority to topple governments? We will not surrender to this. We are seeking truth and justice. We will not surrender to bullying.”

“We believe in human rights. All humans are equal. No one is superior to others,” he adds.

Speaking on the bilateral talks that took place earlier with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Iran’s President Pezeshkian said, “We had a very nice talks with each other. These talks will help in furthering ties in energy, and trade.”

“History of mankind says bullies and oppressors were ultimately destroyed without exception,” Mr. Pezeshkian adds, commenting on the ongoing West Asia war.

Russian President Vladimir Putin stressed the BRICS grouping was not against anyone and Moscow was open to working with the whole world as he agreed to further strengthen bilateral ties with India and slammed the economic restrictions imposed by the West on his country.

Addressing a gathering of BRICS business leaders ahead of the summit, Mr. Putin said Russia was ready to work with partners on infrastructure and logistics pr