Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reel on Instagram on July 26, 2026. Screengrab: X/@narendramodi

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday (July 26, 2026) announced the constitution of a high-powered task force, to be headed by former UIDAI chairman Nandan Nilekani, to recommend steps to make the country’s examination system leak-proof and technology-driven.

“We should ensure that our exam system can be trusted, transparent and tech-savvy. Under the leadership of renowned technology expert Nandan Nilekani, a high-powered task force will be formed, which will focus on exam reforms,” Mr. Modi said.

Also read | CJP protests | From exam paper leaks to unemployment, a generation at breaking point

Mr. Nilekani has worked with the Union Government in the past to set up the Aadhaar ecosystem and Unified Payments Interface (UPI). He is also the chairman of the governing body of the economic policy research think tank, the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), and a co-founder of Infosys.

Who is Nandan Nilekani, the head of PM Modi’s task-force on exam reforms?

Opposition to corner government in Parliament on ‘police brutality’ against students, insist on PM apology

A multidisciplinary panel of domain experts will help revamp the National Testing Agency (NTA) examination system, especially from a technology perspective, and bring about structural reforms in the system, sources said, adding the committee will consist of former UIDAI chairman Nandan Nilekani, former ISRO Chairman S Somnath, former IB director Tapan Deka, IIT Chennai director V. Kamakoti, former Education Secretary Anita Karwal and logistics expert Amrit Lal Meena.

“The Centre is taking multiple steps to ensure that those who have played with the future of students are punished. We have already announced the formation of fast-track courts. We are bringing a stringent law in Parliament on Monday,” Mr. Modi said.

Mr. Modi posted a reel on Instagram, announcing the formation of the high-powered committee. The announcement came a day after former Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan resigned following widespread protests over the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) UG 2026 paper leak and subsequent re-examination.

Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Sunday (July 26, 2026) officially took charge of the Ministry of Education at Kartavya Bhavan. Mr. Joshi, who also holds the portfolios of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, and New and Renewable Energy, chaired a meeting of the Ministry to review the implementation of various schemes and other initiatives.

Union Minister of State for Education Jayant Chaudhary attended the meeting. Officials said Mr. Joshi reviewed key schemes, including Samagra Shiksha, PM-SHRI Schools and PM POSHAN, and discussed school infrastructure.

Higher Education Department secretary Dr. Vineet Joshi, School Education and Literacy Department secretary T. K. Anil Kumar and other senior officials of the Ministry were present.

After assuming charge of the Education Ministry, Mr. Joshi told the media, “The Prime Minister has entrusted me with this responsibility with full confidence. I was in Karnataka yesterday. I reached here last night and came this morning to take charge. I have assumed charge.”

“I am reviewing all the details here and the decisions that need to be taken. I have been gathering information and trying to understand the functioning of the Ministry. We had continuous meetings today. This is a new subject for me. I have taken charge today and held detailed discussions with the senior officers. It is a very big Department, so I will speak to you in detail after I have understood it completely,” Mr. Joshi stated.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.