Days after the Cockroach Janta Party called off its nationwide protest, several reports of protestors being detained and arrested across India have emerged. In response to the reports, the CJP has issued a statement seeking guarantees from the government, especially Union Ministers JP Nadda and Jitendra Singh.

"The Cockroach Janta Party had called off its nationwide protest only after the Government of India assured us that no punitive action would be taken against any protestor, either now or in the future, in any BJP-ruled or NDA-ruled states. The reports emerging from these states are therefore a matter of grave concern," said a statement issued by spokesperson Saurav Das.

One of the key demands made by the CJP to the government was that no FIRs would be filed against protestors who participated in the movement.

Also Read | 'Will be forced to protest again': CJP warns govt, asks it to drop FIRs against protesters

"We call upon the Government of India, particularly @JPNadda ji and @DrJitendraSingh ji, to immediately honour the assurance given to us by ensuring the release of those detained and by directing that no coercive or retaliatory action is taken against any protestor anywhere in the country. The FIRs registered ought to be withdrawn too," the statement added.

The online outfit has also called for a written assurance regarding the withdrawal of FIRs and the release of all those detained.

This action from the CJP also comes after the outfit received flak online over videos of the members celebrating at a hotel.

Viral videos surfaced on social media showing Saurav Das and Ashutosh Ranka, along with other members of the CJP. allegedly dancing and celebrating at a Delhi hotel following Pradhan's resignation.Many protestors who came in support of the movement criticised CJP for this, as it coincided with reports of several detentions across India.

The CJP called off its nationwide protest on Saturday, July 25. This withdrawal came after the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan and after the Centre assured that their demands would be met.

Along with Pradhan's resignation, the Cockroach outfit put forth other key demands. These are -

As per the outfit, all of these demands were met, and the protest was called off. However, hours later, reports flooded social media of protestors being detained across Bihar, West Bengal and other states.

One of the key cases involved a Ghaziabad resident and CJP protest volunteer, Mohammad Junaid.

As per reports, Junaid's father was taken by the police after their residence was searched.

Speaking to the media, Mohammad Junaid said that UP Police took away his family members and seized their bank passbooks and PAN cards during a raid at his house on Friday, a day before the CJP protest was called off.

He also alleged that the police had harassed his family in the Meerut district of the state. Meerut police have denied the allegations.

Amid the reports that the volunteer was also detained, CJP spokesperson Ratna Singh dismissed the claim and added that Junaid is safe and receiving legal assistance.

"We have always treated Junaid with immense respect, and we will continue to stand by him (& other volunteers)," Singh wrote on X.

Danita Yadav is a Senior Content Producer at Hindustan Times. Based in New Delhi, Danita serves as a pivotal voice in international reportage in the team. Operating under the mandate of delivering "without the noise", Danita excels at distilling complex geopolitical developments into lucid, objective narratives which prioritise factual accuracy over sensationalism. In HT, Danita has been recognised for her breaking news efforts and time-bound coverage of the Air India crash, which has driven over 2 million users to the website through trusted, factual coverage of the incident. Thriving in high-pressure editorial environments, Danita has also cultivated a reputation for navigating the nuances of global diplomacy and cross-border policy. With over four years of experience in the journalism industry, Danita has spent her years diving deep into the coverage of international relations and global conflicts. She has previously worked with the news teams at Outlook India and Times Network, covering a wide range of beats and topics, from education curricula and student protests to Indian politics and international conflicts such as the Ukraine, Gaza, and Sudan wars. Danita earned her Bachelor's Degree in Journalism from Kamala Nehru College, University of Delhi. Beyond the newsroom and her love for international relations, you'll find Danita 'geeking' out over books, music and BTS. Her appreciation for global pop culture and storytelling also added to her unique perspective on the "soft power" dynamics that increasingly have shaped international relations in the ever-changing global order.Read More