NEW DELHI/JHUNJHUNU/AHMEDABAD - The prospect of retaking one of India's most competitive exams was so daunting for 19-year-old Sheikh Sana that a day before the test, the pressure became unbearable.

Instead of preparing again for the exam, she wrote "I am sorry" on a plain sheet of paper and took her own life, her family said.

Her death, along with the suicides of other aspiring students who sat medical college entrance exams only to face retakes after it emerged that test papers had been leaked, has become a focus for thousands of young protesters demanding accountability from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government.

On Saturday, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan resigned over the protests.

About two months of protests have evolved from demands for action over the leaks into a broader expression of frustration over education, opportunity and accountability in a country where 65 per cent of the population is under the age of 35.

More than 2 million students sat the pen-and-paper exam, known as the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Neet), in May. After the leak came to light, the government launched an investigation into the test-selling scheme, cancelled the release of the results and ordered a retake in June, forcing candidates back into intense test preparation.

Sana's family, as well as the families of two other students who took their own lives, attributed their deaths to the voiding of the first exam and the uncertainty that followed.

"The fear killed her. The fear of re-Neet," Sana's father, Sheikh Jaffar Hussain, told Reuters at New Delhi's Jantar Mantar protest site, where students have been demanding accountability over the government's handling of the affair.

The government has not commented on the deaths of the exam candidates. Police officials in Rajasthan, Telangana and Gujarat told Reuters they had registered as suicides the deaths of Sana and two other students whose parents Reuters interviewed, and that the cases were still under investigation. They did not comment on the reason for the deaths, which Reuters was unable to independently confirm.

In mid-May, India's federal Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) announced that teachers and agents at private tuition centres had leaked the exam paper, charging students large sums for access to the questions. The CBI has arrested 13 suspects, including a doctor and several teachers, over the leaks.

Modi said in a video message on Thursday that he was pained by the paper leaks and promised strict action against those responsible, including by trying them in fast-track courts.

"I know that paper leaks are not an ordinary issue. And for millions of students and their guardians, this is painful," he said.

This week, tens of thousands protested in central Delhi, and police used batons and tear gas to disperse crowds. Opposition lawmakers disrupted parliament as they echoed protesters' calls for the resignation of Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.

Rahul Gandhi, leader of the main opposition Congress Party, told reporters that exam paper leaks had gone unpunished, and that there had been more than 150 leaks over the past decade. Pradhan and his ministry did not respond to a request for comment on past leaks.

The Cockroach Janta Party (CJP), the Gen Z movement leading the protests in the capital, says 21 students died by suicide in cases it believes were linked to the exam fiasco. Reuters could not independently verify the CJP's numbers.

The offices of the prime minister, education minister, and the top government spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment from Reuters on the protests and the student deaths.

On Tuesday, Pradhan said the government was committed to discussing Neet and addressing youth concerns.

In a post on X on Saturday announcing his resignation, he said: "I deeply respect the aspirations, feelings, and legitimate expectations of the country's youth."

Some political analysts say the unrest, which has spread to other regions of India, presents a challenge for a government that has often described India's youthful population as one of the country's biggest strengths.

"When young people are on the streets of Delhi protesting against a malfunctioning education system, it acquires much larger significance," said Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury, a political science professor at Rabindra Bharati University in Kolkata.

However, analysts also say it will be hard to dent Modi's popularity. In his 12 years in office, he has weathered a series of major protest movements, including over a new citizenship law and agricultural reforms, without lasting electoral damage.

For thousands of Indian families, the medical college entrance exam is seen as a gateway to financial security, social mobility and prestige in a country where competition to gain professional qualifications is fierce and opportunities can be scarce.

Despite rapid economic growth, India's official youth unemployment rate stood at 9.9 per cen