The NEET-UG 2026 examination has been cancelled following allegations of a paper leak. A Rajasthan-based teacher's discovery of a leaked paper with matching questions prompted a nationwide investigation. Authorities have confirmed the leak, leading to the exam's cancellation and a re-examination scheduled for June 21. Future NEET-UG exams will adopt computer-based testing to enhance security.

“Shortchanged ahead of IPO”, ex-Juniper CEO seeks INR365-cr compensation

India ran a $4-trillion economy half-blind for decades. That just ended

Risk is integral to the market; but there are different kinds of risk: 6 mid-cap stocks with upside potential of up to 21%

Backed by Flipkart, Cleartrip plans to narrow the gap with MakeMyTrip

As Cult.fit prepares for IPO, questions on balance sheet health weigh

15 Days Free: Unlock All ETPrime Exclusives, Market Tools & ePapers

Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits

Log out of your current logged-in account and log in again using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits.

Trump temper on H-1B visas is forcing Indians to do these things to stay put in US

What Adani’s US indictment means for India Inc’s overseas fundraising

Why veterans like Reliance, L&T are on acquisition spree? Aswath Damodaran has an answer.

Will China’s dollar bond sale in Saudi Arabia trump the US in financial world?

Huawei launches its own OS to compete with Google and Apple. But can it win beyond China?

A list of top 20 momentum stocks that have delivered massive returns in one year

Get daily trade ideas from SEBI-registered research analysts.

All-in-one stock research with Stock Score, peer comparison & key signals.

Get to know where the market bulls are investing to identify the right stocks.

Check the score based on the company's fundamentals, solvency, growth, risk & ownership to decide the right stocks.

Analyze the market sentiments & identify the trend reversal for strategic decisions.

Ask your stock queries & get assured replies by ET appointed, SEBI registered experts.

Read the PDF version of ET newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime.

Read your daily newspaper in Digital View & get it delivered to your inbox everyday.

Manage your money efficiently with this weekly money management guide.

Read the PDF version of TOI newspaper. Download & access it offline anytime.

Explore the In-depth explanation of complex topics for everyday life decisions.

Get fitter with daily health insights committed to your well-being.

Manage your wealth better with in-depth insights & updates on finance.

Stay globally informed with exclusive story from New York Times.

Stream new documentaries from all across the world every day.