Both nights of the convention are slated to end with speeches from Donald Trump

Republicans look to ‘midterm convention’ to overcome Trump unpopularity

Joe Gruters, the Republican National Committee (RNC) chair, has kicked of the GOP midterm convention. Expected to be full of party pageantry, Gruters said the two-day event in Dallas would be about “defying history”.

Wielding a super-sized gavel, Gruters said that Republicans didn’t come to the American Airlines Center to “to talk about winning. We came here to do it.”

“This isn’t just another convention; this is history in the making,” Gruters added.

The RNC chair also flagged that tonight’s programming will include everyday Americans and several GOP candidates in midterm races this November.

A reminder that both nights of the convention will end with speeches from Donald Trump.

Trump is now participating at a Maga Inc meeting in downtown Dallas, ahead of arriving at the midterm convention. This, you may remember, is the Super Pac that supports the president and many of the candidates he backs.

Maga Inc is sitting on a $400m war chest, and has earmarked $47m for six competitive Senate races and one competitive House race, via its No Going Back PAC Inc, according to the New York Times.

A person briefed on the situation told the press pool traveling with Donald Trump that members of the US air force, which operates Air Force One, “accidentally triggered” the emergency inflatable slide that deployed before the president’s takeoff to Dallas. Trump is set to deliver the keynote speech at the GOP midterm convention.

However, Steven Cheung, the White House communications director, claimed that the slide was “checked out to make sure everything works perfectly”.

Opponents of congressional redistricting in Missouri appealed to the US supreme court on Wednesday after a federal panel let stand a ruling allowing the state to use a new map backed by Donald Trump in November’s midterms.

The map’s challengers, including a group ‌opposed to the Republican-drawn map called ​People Not Politicians, made the request in an emergency ⁠filing, moving swiftly ​after Stephen Clark, a St ​Louis-based chief ​US district ​judge, ‌issued his ​decision on Tuesday.

Clashing rulings had plunged Missouri’s congressional elections into uncertainty, less than two months out from the crucial midterms that will decide which party controls a closely divided congress – and will impact the fate of Trump’s agenda for the rest of his term.

First, the conservative supreme court justice Brett Kavanaugh had denied an emergency request from Missouri officials to use a congressional map in November that was redrawn with Trump’s support to give the GOP an edge in the midterms. That decision effectively allowed a Missouri supreme court ruling to revert back to the 2022 map to stand.

Not long after, a ruling by Clark, who was appointed by Trump, issued a contradictory decision, temporarily preventing the state from using its old congressional maps in the November elections. The temporary restraining order, or TRO, ordered Missouri to use the newly drawn districts that favor Republicans, which the state used in its August primary elections.

Clark’s order was then swiftly appealed to the eighth US circuit court of appeals.

During his remarks in Dallas, Michael Whatley – the former Republican National Committee (RNC) chair and GOP nominee for US Senate in North Carolina – avoided spending much time talking about the Trump administration’s policies like tariffs, the war in Iran and the ensuing economic strain. Instead, Whatley spent much of his speech denigrating his Democratic challenger – former governor Roy Cooper.

Whatley said the “blood” of Iryna Zarutska – the Ukrainian refugee who was fatally stabbed onboard a light rail train in Charlotte by Decarlos Brown Jr – is on Cooper’s “hands”.

Brown has a documented history of prior arrests, other legal problems and mental health issues. However, the Trump administration and its Republican allies seized on the case, claiming the killing demonstrated how local leaders, judges and policies in Democratic-led cities were failing to protect residents from violent crime.

“That monster should have never been on the streets,” Whatley said in Dallas. “When it comes to keeping our kids and our communities safe, Roy Cooper was the worst governor in the history of North Carolina.”

While there are dozens of Republican lawmakers and candidates who are facing tough races this November at the convention in Dallas over the next two days, there are several who have chosen not to attend the event that has been hastily thrown together at the behest of Donald Trump.

Many of these Republicans are up for election in competitive districts and states where the administration’s policies have proven unpopular. This includes Susan Collins, the five-term incumbent senator from Maine, who is contending with a deluge of anti-Trump animus in her purple state ahead of he