Spokesperson for Merz declines to give a reason for cancellation, but notes that it was not due to scheduling

German chancellor accuses far-right AfD party of seeking ‘ethnic cleansing’

German chancellor Friedrich Merz cancelled a planned phone call with US President Donald Trump on Wednesday, hours after Trump publicly celebrated a regional election win by Germany’s far-right Alternative für Deutschland party.

A spokesperson for Merz declined to give a reason for the cancellation, but noted in response to questions from journalists that it was not due to scheduling conflicts, AFP said.

Trump, in a post on his Truth Social platform, hailed the “really big night” for the AfD, and used an abbreviation MGGA, apparent reference to an adapted version of Trump’s trademark slogan, “make Germany great again.”

“Wow! The Populist Party in Germany just had a really big night. They finally got tired of the absolutely horrible Immigration rules and regulations which have hurt Germany so badly. THEY ARE ON THE RISE, and not going to take it anymore! MGGA!!! President DJT”

AFP said Merz’s spokesman did not directly respond to Trump’s comments and declined to comment if there is a link between the two developments, but noted that the chancellor had frequently objected “in general terms” to “interfering in or commenting on the domestic political situation, particularly regarding elections”.

German chancellor Friedrich Merz cancelled a planned phone call with US president Donald Trump on Wednesday, hours after Trump publicly celebrated a regional election win by Germany’s far-right Alternative für Deutschland party (14:02).

The news came hours after a fierce exchanges between Merz and AfD’s leader Alice Weidel during a parliamentary debate in the Bundestag, during which the chancellor accussed the far-right party of seeking “ethnic cleansing” (10:05), and his defence minister Boris Pistorius pointed out its links with Russia (15:07).

Celebrating her party’s win in the Saxony-Anhalt election over the weekend, Weidel said Merz “failed to understand the message” from the voters, but his time was “up anyway”.

Norway bid farewell to King Harald V in a ceremonial funeral attended by royals and leaders from several other countries (12:03, 13:04, 14:33, 17:01).

Moldova’s president Maia Sandu warned that “Russia’s frontline is moving further west” after a Russian strike on the Moldovan-Ukrainian border overnight, a day after a drone incursion into Moldovan airspace (10:59).

Two people were killed in an explosion at a power plant in southern Switzerland, which police said was “a serious workplace incident” (11:49, 17:16).

One person died and four were seriously injured after a passenger train collided with a cement truck in Poland (12:47, 17:16).

Serbian president Aleksandar Vučić dissolved ⁠parliament and announced snap elections for next month as he seeks to extend his ⁠hold on power by ⁠running ​for prime minister (12:49).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

As promised, I have been keeping an eye on reports coming from Switzerland (11:49) and Poland (12:47) after two incidents there earlier today, so here is the latest.

Swiss police confirmed that two people were killed in an explosion at a power plant in southern Switzerland, which it described as a “serious workplace incident.”

The building suffered “extensive damage”, their statement said, adding that the exact circumstances and cause of the accident were under investigation, AFP said.

Meanwhile, in Poland, one person died and at least four were seriously injured after a train collided with a cement truck at a level crossing.

Speaking to journalists after the accident, Polish prime minister Donald Tusk called for stricter regulations for drivers violating railway crossing signals.

Back in Oslo, the funeral ceremony for late King Harald V has now concluded, with his successor, King Haakon, and the royal family appearing together on the balcony of the royal palace to greet the public.

The flag above the palace was also raised back to fly at full mast, ending the official mourning period after 12 days since Harald’s death.

The head of the UK air traffic control provider Nats has been given a week to report back on the reasons for the technical failure that has disrupted thousands of flights in the UK and across Europe since Tuesday.

Downing Street said the government still had confidence in Nats chief executive Martin Rolfe, who was summoned to meet the UK transport secretary, Heidi Alexander, on Wednesday morning as the number of flight cancellations passed 2,000.

Rolfe has been facing increasing pressure to quit after the third large-scale stoppage to flights in just over three years.

Hundreds of thousands of passengers had their travel disrupted and delayed, with many stuck on grounded planes for many hours as the incident unrav