William T Vollmann has written a 3,000‑page novel when the world appears to be done with big books

Instead of chasing GDP growth, India must redesign its broken ladder of upward mobility

How an anti-reservation movement mimicking the CJP is branding entitlement as reform

HC summons journalist Sudhir Chaudhary for allegedly defamatory show during youth protests

How India and China managed the Kailash-Manasarovar pilgrimage in the 1950s

Memoir: Writer Ranbir Sidhu charts the shame and violence of spaces where his parents lived and died

‘Enough is enough’: Calcutta HC says it may bar more FIRs against Abhishek Banerjee

SIR: Bharat Ratna awardee CNR Rao sent notice for spelling mismatch, says report

Why social media thinks government intentionally slowed internet after Delhi building collapse

Why an indigenous community in Arunachal blacklisted four researchers

On Monday, Harsh Mamnani, a Delhi-based independent video journalist, put out an unusual request on Instagram. He asked his followers where he could find high-speed internet in Satya Niketan, the South Delhi neighbourhood where a five-storey building used as paying guest accommodation by students had collapsed the previous day, killing at least seven people and injuring several others.

The 24-year-old, who has reported from the site of the collapse every day since Sunday, said he felt compelled to seek help because his mobile phone internet was simply too slow to upload videos. Mamnani thought this was because the government had slowed down the speed of mobile phone internet. “I am pretty sure they [the government] did it,” he asserted.

Student-activists who have visited the area frequently this week were also certain that “jammers” had been used on Sunday, the day the collapse occurred, as well as Monday. “The government did not want us to circulate videos because that could have led to a big protest,” alleged Sagar Suman, a PhD scholar from the Jawaharlal Nehru University who volunteers with the left-wing outfit, Disha Students’ Organisation.

So widespread was this belief that the Delhi Police had to “fact check” it on Tuesday morning. “Networks are fully operational,” it claimed in a social media post. “Media and citizens are broadcasting from the site with no disruption. Do not spread engagement-driven misinformation.”

But by then videos alleging that the government had enforced an internet shutdown in Satya Niketan had gone viral on Instagram. Some of these videos went so far as to say that those trapped under the debris of the collapse were unable to contact their families and friends because of the purported shutdown.

Journalist Nikhil Pahwa, who founded MediaNama, a website focused on technology policy, argued that the Modi government and the Delhi Police had only themselves to blame for this. Their use of internet shutdowns during the recent youth protests at Jantar Mantar, he said, had led to a loss of credibility.

“It is very, very natural that people jump to conclusions because they [the government] have done their best when it comes to losing the trust of people,” Pahwa added.

According to the Telecommunications (Temporary Suspension of Services) Rules, which the Modi government notified in November 2024, officials have the power to suspend “any class of telecommunication services” for up to 15 days. This means that they can halt high-speed mobile phone internet services without putting in place a complete shutdown.

Pahwa pointed out that the government has done this before in Jammu and Kashmir. As recently as March, the home department of Jammu and Kashmir had asked internet service providers to reduce data services to 2G speeds for four days in the “entire Kashmir valley” after the assassination of Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran.

The order capped 2G speeds at 128 kilobits per second, which made it impossible to share videos.

The same rules also require officials issuing internet suspension orders to make them public. However, the rules do not specify when that must be done.

In practice, this has meant that the orders are sometimes released with a lag. During the July youth protests at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, for example, the Union home ministry faced criticism from activists for the delay in making its suspension orders public.

Scroll sent questions to the ministry asking if it had passed any internet suspension orders after the building collapse in Satya Niketan. This story will be updated if the ministry responds.

Sakhi, 22, who rose to fame with videos mocking Delhi Police officials at the recent Jantar Mantar protests, visited Satya Niketan hours after the building collapse and found that the mobile internet speed was very slow.

“I could see just one network bar on my phone,” said the master’s student from Delhi University, who is an active member of the Students’ Federation of India, which is the student wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). “I was able to send text messages on WhatsApp, but