The Delhi Police has arrested Sudhanshu, one of the operators of the 'Hostel Daze' paying guest (PG) facility being run from the five-storey building that collapsed in Delhi's Satya Niketan area on 6 September, killing seven people, including five students.

The five-floor building was operated by two business partners who had leased the property in August 2025. One of the operators is still on the run.

Delhi Police is, meanwhile, investigating the circumstances that led to the collapse and the roles of those associated with the building's ownership, maintenance, repair work and PG operations.

Sudhanshu was arrested by Delhi Police as one of the operators of the 'Hostel Daze' PG facility operating from the building that collapsed, resulting in seven fatalities.

The demolition of the adjacent building was ordered by Delhi CM Rekha Gupta due to its dilapidated condition, ensuring public safety after the collapse incident.

The building stood five floors tall before it collapsed, housing a PG facility operated under the name 'Hostel Daze.'

Students may need to reassess their use of PG accommodations, considering the concerns raised about safety and structural integrity of such buildings in the wake of the collapse.

The Delhi government is conducting inspections of all PG accommodations to ensure compliance with building regulations and to enhance safety measures following the Satya Niketan tragedy.

Delhi Police arrested Sudhanshu, one of the two business partners operating the PG facility from the building. The two operators, the other being Shubham Tyagi, had taken the property on lease in August 2025. Tyagi remains on the run.

Police had earlier arrested property owners Hariram Bansal (81) and his wife Urmila Gupta (75), along with their 52-year-old son Mahesh Gupta. The couple was sent to 14 days of judicial custody, while Mahesh was remanded to two days of police custody.

Mahesh's police custody ends on Wednesday, and he is being taken from the South Campus police station to be produced before a court. A building contractor and a mason are also being taken to court, according to an ANI report.

Police earlier apprehended labour contractor Sanoj from Uttar Pradesh's Kasganj. He was allegedly supervising repair work in the building's basement.

Delhi Chief Minister Rekha Gupta ordered the MCD to demolish the adjoining building as it is in a dilapidated condition.

In a post on X, Delhi CMO wrote, “On the instructions of Chief Minister Rekha Gupta, MCD has been directed to demolish the dilapidated building adjoining the accident site in the interest of public safety. The belongings of students inside the building are being safely removed by Delhi Fire Service personnel in a systematic manner. All students and local residents are requested to cooperate with the authorities.”

According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (South West) Amit Goel, repair work was underway in the basement for eight to 10 days because waste had accumulated during the rainy season. The ground floor was also being repaired and extended for commercial purposes.

Police found seven rooms spread across four floors -- two each on the first, second and third floors and one on the fourth floor. The fourth-floor room had been partially converted into a single-room accommodation for three students. The ground floor had two shops and a basement.

The PG was being operated under the name 'Hostel Daze'. An officer said at least three other PG facilities operating under the same name were functioning in the neighbourhood before the collapse.

The Supreme Court has indicated that it will examine the Satya Niketan PG building collapse on a pan-India basis, ANI reported. A bench of Justices Ahsanuddin Amanullah and R Mahadevan has listed the matter for hearing on Thursday.

It came after a mention of the tragedy by senior advocate Ajit Sinha, a court-appointed amicus curiae in an earlier matter concerning regulatory compliance with the apex court's directions on illegal buildings and structures across the country.

Seven people, including five students, died after the five-storey building came crashing down on Sunday afternoon. Several others were injured.

Stay updated with the latest Trending, India, World and US news.

Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.

Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.