An ⁠earthquake ​with ⁠a ⁠preliminary magnitude ​of ‌6.8 ‌struck ‌the country’s Kumamoto prefecture

A 6.8-magnitude earthquake has shaken south Japan, leaving at least 50 people injured. Some are trapped and presumed dead inside a shopping mall. The earthquake hit the Kumamoto prefecture on the southern Kyushu island late on Tuesday afternoon, knocking out power to thousands of homes and damaging roads, bridges and buildings.

Japan’s prime minister, Sanae Takaichi, told reporters authorities were still assessing the extent of the damage in the area, which was devastated by another deadly quake a decade ago. “We have already been informed that people have been injured. Power outages ⁠and fires have occurred in some areas, and there has also been damage to roads and bridges and the collapse of buildings,” Takaichi said. “I ask everyone to take action to protect themselves, including evacuating to a safe location.”

An explosion occurred in an Aeon shopping mall shortly after the earthquake, trapping “many people”, fire services said. The broadcaster TBS reported that police said “quite a few” were presumed dead. About 20 to 30 workers at the mall were unaccounted for, NHK said.

An Aeon spokesperson said customers and employees were evacuated after the initial quake and the cause of the explosion remained unclear. Footage showed one side of the mall, the prefecture’s largest with roughly 200 stores, was torn away, exposing steel beams ‌and strewing debris across the neighbouring car park. Several ambulances and fire engines were parked outside as rescue teams searched for survivors.

About 300,000 people have been instructed to go to evacuation centres, ⁠the disaster management agency said. The areas with the biggest tremors will remain at risk of further strong quakes and landslides for about a week since the shallow earthquake is triggering active seismic activity in the area, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency.

So far there have been more than 60 aftershocks ranging in magnitude from 1 to 4, the agency said. A tsunami warning was issued immediately after the quake, ​but was lifted within two hours. One person was killed in south-west Japan when a house collapsed during the earthquake, Kyodo News reported.

One hospital reported ​more than 50 injuries, and another about 40, including 10 in a serious condition, the public broadcaster NHK said. Several people on a high-speed ‌train at the time of the quake were also ‌injured and multiple people were unaccounted for after a chimney collapsed at a Nippon Paper Industries factory, according to local media reports.

The quake’s epicentre was about 12 miles (20km) south of Kumamoto, central Kyushu island’s largest city, with a population of about 700,000. The US Geological Survey initially said the earthquake had a magnitude of 7.1, but revised it later to 6.8.

The Kumamoto region located in the southwestern island of Kyushu was the epicentre of the earthquake and it is no stranger to such disasters. In 2016, the volcanic area was the hardest hit by a series of earthquakes, the highest was a 7.0-magnitude just beneath Kumamoto city. In total 277 people were killed, either directly by the earthquake or due to disaster related injuries

At the time, the Guardian reported that tens of thousands of people were evacuated from Mashiki, one of the the worst hit towns.

The Kumamoto Prefecture lies at the southern end of the Japan Median Tectonic Line, Japan’s longest tectonic zone.

Hundreds of injured people have been transported to medical facilities throughout Kumamoto Prefecture, but some hospitals have had to cease operations due to power outages and other issues. According to a report compiled by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, as of 10pm local time, 43 medical institutions in Kumamoto Prefecture have suffered damage such as power outages, water shortages, and inability to use medical gas.

According to the Kyushu Electric Power Transmission and Distribution website, as of 01:30am local time, over 40,000 households in Kumamoto Prefecture are experiencing power outages.

Four people have been rescued from the scene at the Aeon shopping mall, and none of them are in life-threatening condition. The whereabouts of 10 people still remains unknown.

A senior government official told reporters: “We don’t know if it was the cause of the explosion, but there have been reports that gas was leaking. The main gas valve has been shut off, and the police, fire department, and Self-Defense Forces are conducting rescue operations.”

Footage captured inside a Costco in Kumamoto shows shoppers ducking for cover after shelves collapse as the earthquake hit.

Japan’s public broadcaster NHK are reporting that two people are in cardiac arrest and nine others are missing following a chimney collapse at Nippon Paper Industries Yatsushiro plant in the Kumamoto.

According to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communicati