From Board To Sarkari Exam: Here Are Major Paper Leaks That Happened in 2025

Paper leaks followed by subsequent cancellations and student protests have repeatedly undermined the sanctity and integrity of exams in India. Be it board, competitive, or recruitment exams, students are constantly dealing with unauthorised releases, sometimes real and sometimes hoaxes. While leaks give unfair advantage to some, others feel betrayed and eventually lose trust in the organising authorities. Exam mafias are slowly hollowing out the system, giving rise to cheating networks in the country.

Organising authorities, too, have to bear the losses because of re-exams, burden on government resources, and legal challenges. Today, we’re going to talk about the biggest leaks that happened in 2025 and their aftermath.

In 2025, the UKSSSC’s graduate-level recruitment exam leak tops the rankings, as it affected approximately 1.05 lakh candidates statewide.. On September 21, 2025, the exam was cancelled by the authorities after multiple question papers were leaked from a test centre in Haridwar during the exam. It led to student protests, a CBI inquiry, and subsequent exam cancellation by the authorities.

Assam HS Class 11 Board Exams: All Cancelled After Multiple Leaks

Back in March 2025, the Assam State School Education Board had to scrap all remaining exams for Class 11 following paper leaks across numerous exam centres.

“Due to reports of question paper leak and breach of protocol, the remaining subjects of HS First Year Examination 2025 (scheduled from March 24–29) stand cancelled,” Pegu said in a post on X.

Reports suggest that authorities caught tampering with Class 11 Mathematics question papers’ sealed packets and their circulation before the scheduled time. It prompted exam cancellation, suspension of affiliation of 15 private schools across 10 districts, and legal action.

After much deliberation, the board noted that it would not be possible to conduct re-examinations due to the ongoing election process, and that holding them afterward would be “too late.” Therefore, the Assam HS Class 11 board exams for the remaining subjects stood cancelled.

Jharkhand Board Class 10 Hindi & Science Exams: Cancelled After Leak

In February, the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), too, had to cancel its Class 10 Science and Hindi board exams post-confirmation of a paper leak. As per reports, when students sat for the examination, the questions matched word by word, suggesting a confirmed leak. JAC had to conduct re-examinations of these subjects for lakhs of students.

Himachal Pradesh Class 12 English Exam: Cancelled Due to Confirmed Paper Breach

Like the Assam Board, the HPBOSE Class 12 English paper’s sealed packets were opened and circulated before the scheduled date i.e. March 8, 2025 at a centre in Chamba. When authorities received an anonymous tip regarding the alleged leak, they investigated the matter and found evidence through monitoring tools. Consequently, the exam was cancelled across the state in 2025 to uphold the exam’s integrity.

ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwifery) Competitive Exam: Cancelled After Leak

Just three hours before its scheduled time, the government had to scrap the ANM nursing entrance test in Bhubaneswar after paper leak reports. It sparked a debate in the Assembly around unemployment and the credibility of the exam-conducting authority.

Don't Miss | 5 Biggest Exam Blunders in India — And What Changed After

Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Education, CBSE, JEE, UPSC and around the world.

Deepali Samaniya has been covering education for the past 2 years with a passion for SEO and a knack for crafting engaging stories. She specialises in... View More