Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

“M.V. AMIR1, currently at Ukrainian port Chornomorsk with 15 crew on board, including 13 Indian seafarers, is trapped in a terrible and life-threatening situation,” says Forward Seamen’s Union of India. Picture: X/@FSUIINDIA

Fifteen sailors, including 13 Indians, are trapped in a “terrible and life-threatening situation” at the Ukrainian port of Chornomorsk in the Black Sea owing to missile and drone attacks in the vicinity, says Forward Seamen’s Union of India (FSUI).

The crew members, who are onboard M.V. AMIR1, are living under the constant fear of a direct hit at any moment, according to an FSUI post on X.

“We urgently appeal to all concerned authorities, shipowners, flag state, and the Government of India to immediately secure their safety and arrange prompt repatriation,” says the post.

On July 25, Indian time, Palau-flagged General Cargo Ship AGN RAGNAR was reportedly attacked by three drones while exiting the Bystre Mouth of the Danube river into the Black Sea.

During the attack, two Indian nationals, Chandra Ram Dubey (Ordinary Seaman) and Gupta Kumar Deepak (Ordinary Seaman), reportedly jumped overboard and are still missing. Search operations had been called off because of the continued attacks.

The remaining seven crew members, including two Indian nationals and the pilot, were safely evacuated ashore by the Ukrainian Coast Guard.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.