NEW DELHI: Thirteen Indian seafarers are among 15 crew members stranded on board a cargo vessel at Ukraine's Chornomorsk port, where repeated drone and missile attacks have placed the crew in what has been described as a "life-threatening situation", according to the Forward Seamen's Union of India (FSUI).In an urgent appeal posted on X, the union said the vessel, MV AMIR1, remains docked at Chornomorsk while hostilities continue in the surrounding area."MV AMIR1, currently at Ukrainian port Chornomorsk with 15 crew on board, including 13 Indian seafarers, is trapped in a terrible and life-threatening situation," it said.The union alleged that drone and missile attacks were being carried out in the immediate vicinity of the ship, leaving the crew in constant fear."Repeated drone and missile attacks are being attempted in the immediate vicinity of the vessel. The crew is living under constant fear of a direct hit at any moment," it said. The FSUI urged the shipowners, the vessel's flag state, the relevant authorities and the government to intervene immediately to ensure the crew's safety and facilitate their evacuation. "We urgently appeal to all concerned authorities, shipowners, flag state, and the Government of India to immediately secure their safety and arrange prompt repatriation," the union said. Calling for urgent action, it added, "Indian seafarers must not be left as sitting targets in conflict zones. Act now."This comes a day after MEA raised concerns with Ukraine over the safety of Indian seafarers in the Black Sea. On Monday, the MEA summoned Ukraine's ambassador to India, Dr Oleksandr Polishchuk, following an attack on the merchant vessel MV OMORFI near the Ukrainian port of Odesa that had four Indian crew members on board. The MEA said the strike resulted in the death of an Indian national and condemned attacks on commercial shipping in the "strongest terms", calling them a threat to maritime safety, freedom of navigation and international commerce. It also urged Kyiv to ensure that commercial vessels carrying civilian seafarers are not targeted.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.