Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

Investigators have found that the co-pilot who attempted to take control of a flydubai flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv last week aimed to crash it into Israel's Ben Gurion airport, according to a person familiar with the matter but not authorized to speak publicly. Authorities in the United Arab Emirates who are leading the investigation say the incident has been classified as a terrorist attack. They have not identified a clear motive, and the investigation is ongoing.

TZAFRIA, ISRAEL - SEPTEMBER 30: A passenger raises his arms in relief as he walks through the domestic arrivals doors with his dog and luggage at Ben Gurion Airport on September 30, 2026 in Tzafria, Israel. A flydubai flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv was diverted to Saudi Arabia after a violent altercation in the cockpit. Erik Marmor/Getty Images hide caption

A new Supreme Court term starts today with arguments in a significant climate change case. Boulder, Colo., is suing Suncor and Exxon Mobil, arguing that the companies misled the public about the harms of fossil fuels and caused costly disasters that cost the city time and money. This case could impact other states seeking to hold companies accountable for allegedly harming local communities.

Brazil's presidential race will go to a runoff later this month between left-wing President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and right-wing Senator Flávio Bolsonaro. In the tight first round, Bolsonaro, the son of Brazil's former far-right president, led with about 47% of the vote, while Lula followed closely with 45%.

Tech companies are "reinventing the rip-off," according to Lindsay Owens, head of the consumer advocacy group Groundwork Collaborative. She says corporations try to hide pricing schemes, such as using browsing data or a customer's geo-location to determine the cost of goods and services. In her book Gouged: The End of a Fair Price — And What That Means for Your Wallet, she uncovers these schemes and offers advice on how to protect yourself from being overcharged. In an interview with Life Kit, Owens explained steps you can take to get the best possible deal.

For more advice on how to avoid being ripped off, listen to this episode of NPR's Life Kit. Subscribe to the Life Kit newsletter for expert advice on love, money, relationships and more.

In a town not far from Barbara Kingsolver's house in southwestern Virginia is a historic marker noting Marion, Va., as "the birthplace of modern Mountain Dew." I came across it on the drive down I-81 to interview the Pulitzer-Prize winning author. It took me by surprise — I didn't expect such a momentous event here, in Appalachia. After all, isn't this the middle of nowhere?

There's some quibbling — the drink's roots trace back to Knoxville, Tennessee, which is why the word "modern" is in the designation. But it's here, in Marion, where the Dew truly realized both its potential and its propensity for change.

When I first encountered Kingsolver's work (The Poisonwood Bible, in high school AP English class), I was more partial to Mountain Dew Code Red — the version most associated with hardcore gamers. That didn't end up being my life, though.

Contested memories, an overlooked and condescended-to town, expectations of the future that go awry, how things change (but do they, really?) — we get into all of that in my interview with Kingsolver about her new novel, Partita. It's about a young classical pianist from Appalachia who has the chops to really make it, until her life gets upended. Kingsolver grew up loving classical music, and even went to college on a music scholarship. But that didn't end up being her life, either.

Give the full interview a listen in NPR's Book of the Day podcast feed.

Theaster Gates poses for a portrait at the Pickard China factory in Antioch, Ill. The 53-year-old Chicago-based artist recently acquired the business for an undisclosed sum. Akilah Townsend for NPR hide caption

This newsletter was edited by Suzanne Nuyen. Majd Al-Waheidi contributed.

NPR does not offer or accept money for coverage or interviews. Anyone who makes such an offer or request is not an NPR employee and does not represent NPR.