One-party election: BJP looks to sweep Nandigram with help from police and Trinamool turncoats

Neha Bora detained in ‘unauthorised vehicle’ on day 3 of protests against CEC, released hours later

Keralam orders probe into 2006 corruption allegations against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Why an anonymous X post about anti-caste readings got the PMO’s attention

In a new book, hotelier Nakul Anand explains how to handle customer complaints

Raj Thackeray demands end to EVM voting, scrapping of Maharashtra SIR

‘If you are good, people will automatically contact you,’ says mridangam player TS Nandakumar

Process of deleting citizens as voters ‘intrinsically arbitrary’, says SC judge amid SIR concerns

Why Opposition parties have not boycotted elections despite alleging polls are rigged

The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was on Monday jointly awarded to three scientists for their work on light-gated ion channels and optogenetics.

Peter Hegemann from Humboldt University of Berlin and Georg Nagel from the University of Würzburg in Germany discovered a protein, named channelrhodopsin, in a single-celled alga.

Karl Deisseroth from The Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Stanford University in the United States developed a way to turn the protein into a light-controlled switch for nerve cells.

Their research has fundamentally changed the way science understands the human brain, the Nobel Assembly at Karolinska Institutet said in a statement. The three scientists have “laid the foundation of a new era in neuroscience”, it added.

Their research has led to the discovery of a method that makes it possible to show how nerve cells shape memories, feelings and behaviours in the brain, the Nobel Assembly said.

Researchers are using the method to try and restore eyesight in people.

“Optogenetics provides opportunities for mapping the brain in a way that we could once only dream of,” said Per Svenningsson, the chair of the Nobel Committee for Physiology or Medicine.

The three scientists will equally share the prize amount of 12 million Swedish krona, or Rs 11.5 crore.

The Nobel Prize in physics will be announced on Tuesday, chemistry on Wednesday, literature on Thursday, for peace on Friday. The prize in economics will be announced on October 12.