Hundreds of schools in France remain closed amid planned demonstrations across the country

French education minister Édouard Geffray said that at least 190 students have been injured since the protests began.

He said their injuries were caused “either due to accidents or injuries caused by troublemakers, specifically injuries from fireworks,” Le Figaro reported.

Nearly 200 French students have been injured since the protests began, France’s education minister Édouard Geffray said, at protests and violent clashes with police continued for another day (14:15, 16:49).

A 15-year-old boy ‌had his hand ‌blown off at a protest outside a high school in the northern town of Lens, local authorities confirmed (14:04, 17:24).

At least 5,000 people – 85% of them teenagers – have been arrested since the start of the protests (16:47).

Tuesday is expected to bring even more disruption after different groups called for a national day of protests.

Spain’s socialist prime minister, Pedro Sánchez, has once again staked his political future on a snap general election called after rightwing parties torpedoed emergency legislation to tackle the housing crisis (9:01, 9:04, 9:09, 9:10, 9:13, 9:17, 9:23).

Pedro Sánchez is hoping to mobilise voters around the housing crisis and the broader message of hope, with opinion polls suggesting his left-wing government might otherwise struggle to retain power (9:37).

As he deals with a fragmented left-wing bloc and criticism over the migration crisis in Ceuta, it’s not hard to see why the prime minister may have decided that an early election was preferable to several more months of legislative deadlock, mud-slinging and uncomfortable headlines (12:33).

The opposition leader, the People’s Party’s Alberto Núñez Feijóo, welcomed the move, saying “at last” Spaniards will have a chance to oust the PM (10:24).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

We are also getting a bit of a clarification about the circumstances of the incident involving the 15-year-old who reportedly lost a hand during French school protests (14:04).

A 15-year-old protesting against what the demonstrators say are France’s dilapidated ⁠and understaffed ​schools ‌had his hand ‌blown off on ‌Monday at a protest outside a high school in the northern town of Lens, the local prefect François-Xavier Lauch ‌said.

Lauch, the prefect of Pas-de-Calais, declined to comment on the exact circumstances, saying some 150-200 protesters had been hurling a series of objects at police and riot officers intervened. It was not certain if the incident had involved a police stun grenade, and how the injury happened. Lauch said ​an investigation ​into ‌the had ​been opened.

A police union source told AFP that the boy appeared to have picked up a stun grenade fired by riot police and that it exploded in his hand, but this needs to be formally established by the investigation.

In Spain, tens of thousands of people in 50 cities have taken to the streets amid mounting fury over the country’s housing crisis, their feelings made plain on a banner at the burgeoning protest camp in Madrid’s Puerta del Sol plaza:

“You can speculate on watches, jewels, crypto-Bros and Ferraris. But not on our fucking homes.”

In France, as high school pupils clash with police in often violent protests over long hours, missing teachers, crumbling classrooms and an opaque university admissions system, the angry slogans include:

“More hours in class than for sleep”, “Fund study, not repression” and “I’d like to be worrying about my maths exam, not my future.”

They may stem from different specific grievances, but the two waves of mainly youth-led protest exemplify a growing problem for western European governments: a generation of young people feeling increasingly denied the basic socioeconomic security that, by and large, their parents enjoyed.

French education minister Édouard Geffray said that at least 190 students have been injured since the protests began.

He said their injuries were caused “either due to accidents or injuries caused by troublemakers, specifically injuries from fireworks,” Le Figaro reported.

Let’s take a look at the latest as student protests in France continue.

Since ​last Monday, 5,000 people, 85% of them teenagers, ​have been arrested and dozens injured. Teachers and members of ​the public have been attacked, while damage to property is estimated in the millions of euros, AFP reported.

In other news from Romania, we are waiting for an update from the country’s prime minister Nicușor Dan who is expected to name his latest preferred prime ministerial candidate later today.

His last candidate, Siegfried Mureșan, lost a key parliamentary vote last week, forcing the president to have another go at finding a new person for the top job.

Separately, Romanian authorities said that two people died and others ⁠were resc