Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A view of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi. Photo used for representation purpose only. | Photo Credit: The Hindu

Amid the political slugfest over Chief Justice of India (CJI) Surya Kant’s remarks on Form 6 used for registration of voters, the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the Press Information Bureau came out with a slew of fact-checks.

Following the reports of dissent within the commission over changes made in Form 6, the EC had in a press release on September 26, claimed that the declaration form attached with Form 6 was upheld by the apex court.

As the CJI on Monday made it clear, “any modification to Form 6 has not been approved by us. Let’s be clear,” Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi was quick to target the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) saying, “It is now established beyond doubt that Gyanesh Kumar changed Form 6 illegally and unilaterally. This is just one more proof of him abusing his position to help the BJP. He and everyone else involved in this criminal assault on our democracy will be held accountable.”

The EC was, however, quick to fact-check Mr. Gandhi in a post on X. The Commission said the Leader of Opposition’s post was misleading, asserting that the June 24, 2025 order for the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) in Bihar was issued with the unanimous approval of the Commission and was upheld by the Supreme Court in its May 27, 2026 judgment. Further, the September 26, 2026 press note, categorically stated that the declaration attached to Form 6 for the SIR had been upheld by the Supreme Court.

The press note of September 26 itself came into focus when Ashutosh Ranka of the Cockroach Janta Party in a post on X claimed that it was no more available on the EC website.

The PIB fact-checked him saying: “The press release dated 26th September 2026 is available in the public domain and has not been taken down by the Election Commission of India.”

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.