One-party election: BJP looks to sweep Nandigram with help from police and Trinamool turncoats

Neha Bora detained in ‘unauthorised vehicle’ on day 3 of protests against CEC, released hours later

Keralam orders probe into 2006 corruption allegations against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Why an anonymous X post about anti-caste readings got the PMO’s attention

In a new book, hotelier Nakul Anand explains how to handle customer complaints

Raj Thackeray demands end to EVM voting, scrapping of Maharashtra SIR

‘If you are good, people will automatically contact you,’ says mridangam player TS Nandakumar

Process of deleting citizens as voters ‘intrinsically arbitrary’, says SC judge amid SIR concerns

Why Opposition parties have not boycotted elections despite alleging polls are rigged

The Supreme Court on Monday refused to pass an interim order on petitions seeking the suspension of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar for allegedly taking unilateral decisions regarding the special intensive revision of electoral rolls, reported Live Law.

The court said it would first seek responses from the Election Commission and other respondents.

A bench of Chief Justice Surya Kant, and Justices Joymalya Bagchi and V Mohana issued notices to Kumar, the poll panel, the Union government, Election Commissioners Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi and Deputy Election Commissioner Maneesh Garg.

Kant also verbally observed that the Supreme Court had not approved any changes to the Election Commission’s Form 6, which is used to register new voters.

The Election Commission had claimed in a statement on September 26 that a declaration attached to Form 6 for the voter roll revision had been upheld by the Supreme Court. It had also announced that the old version of Form 6 would be used in periods when SIR is not underway.

Petitions were filed before the court after The Indian Express reported on September 23 that Sandhu and Joshi had formally objected 14 times in 10 months to decisions by the poll panel related to the special intensive revision, saying some had been taken without their knowledge.

Their objections were reportedly related to the changes to Form 6, appeals against the inclusion of voters in West Bengal and the handling of voter data in Goa, among other matters. Form 6 is used to register new voters.

In one written objection, Sandhu was quoted as having stated that the poll body had acted against the advice of both commissioners and described the action as “unauthorised and illegal”.

The two election commissioners had also raised concerns over access to the digital electoral roll database.

The Election Commission has rejected reports of a rift, saying differences in views and observations are a normal part of its deliberations.

One of the petitions in the Supreme Court sought that all decisions taken by the poll panel not in concurrence with the election commissioners should be declared illegal, reported Bar and Bench.

It also sought that there should be an investigation into the deletion of 13.8 crore voters from the electoral rolls of 31 states and Union Territories during the special intensive revision.

“We are dealing with a grave situation which can undermine the very basis of our democracy,” the petitioner told the court.

Also read: SIR explained: Why the voter role revision has become so controversial

The petitions were heard as protests are being held in several parts of the country calling for Kumar to resign over concerns about the functioning of the Election Commission and its handling of the special intensive revision.

Since the exercise began in June 2025, the SIR has faced questions about the manner and pace of its implementation, amid concerns that it could deny genuine electors their right to vote and shape election outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the exercise, but said that it does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.

Despite this, Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states have cited the SIR to deny ration cards to those who have been eliminated from the rolls. In some cases, the police have denied permission for their passports to be renewed.

Edited by Sara Varghese, Nachiket Deuskar and Tanya Shrivastava.