One-party election: BJP looks to sweep Nandigram with help from police and Trinamool turncoats

Neha Bora detained in ‘unauthorised vehicle’ on day 3 of protests against CEC, released hours later

Keralam orders probe into 2006 corruption allegations against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Why an anonymous X post about anti-caste readings got the PMO’s attention

In a new book, hotelier Nakul Anand explains how to handle customer complaints

Raj Thackeray demands end to EVM voting, scrapping of Maharashtra SIR

‘If you are good, people will automatically contact you,’ says mridangam player TS Nandakumar

Process of deleting citizens as voters ‘intrinsically arbitrary’, says SC judge amid SIR concerns

Why Opposition parties have not boycotted elections despite alleging polls are rigged

A woman journalist, who alleged that she had been sexually harassed by Assistant Commissioner of Police Vivek Bhagat on Saturday, was detained again on Monday, reported The Hindu.

She was detained as protests continued outside the Parliament Street police station demanding that a first information report be registered against Bhagat. The journalist had also been detained during a protest on Sunday.

She was among the three women journalists who alleged that they were sexually harassed by police officers while covering the protests demanding the resignation of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar at Jantar Mantar.

The journalist who was detained had alleged that Bhagat groped her while she was making a video of the student leader Neha Bora being detained. She said that she had gone to the Parliament Street police station to file a complaint, but no action was taken.

An unidentified police official was quoted as saying by The Hindu that registering cases against police personnel for actions taken while performing law and order duties could “deter them from working”.

Another unidentified police official told the newspaper on Sunday that there was no evidence to substantiate the journalist’s allegation.

On Sunday, the Delhi Police said that the allegations of sexual harassment had been received “in context of the emergent law and order situation” a day earlier.

The New Delhi district police has received their complaints and transferred them to the Crime Branch at Kamla Market for a “fair and impartial enquiry” against the police officers, it said.

It was unclear whether the Delhi Police was referring to the allegations against Bhagat or to separate complaints of sexual assault.

#WATCH | Delhi | Police detain protestors protesting outside Parliament Street Police Station against an alleged incident of misconduct by a police personnel with a woman. https://t.co/OPX23jq577 pic.twitter.com/NLA2dWsSzB

On Sunday, the Cockroach Janta Party said its team went to the police station with the journalist and asked the police to register an FIR against Bhagat for molestation. It alleged that police refused, citing the ongoing Crime Branch investigation.

Meanwhile, Ratna Singh, the legal affairs head of the Cockroach Janta Party, said that along with the journalist, 17 others were detained during Monday’s protest demanding action against Bhagat.

She alleged that the police assaulted the detainees. “To protect their own, the police are now allegedly beating up the victim and those demanding action against the accused,” said Singh.

Separately, Digipub News India Foundation, an association of independent digital news organisations and journalists of which Scroll is a member, demanded that FIRs be registered against accused officers.

The association said that the incidents of women journalists being sexually harassed were “extremely shameful and completely unacceptable”.

“The responsible officers and authorities of the Delhi Police, who are meant to maintain law and order, and protect the constitutional rights of citizens, are themselves engaging in criminal activities,” said Digipub. “Whom should ordinary citizens and journalists now look to for protection?”