Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

DMK leader and the Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly Udhayanidhi Stalin speaks to the media in Tiruchirappalli on August 4, 2026. | Photo Credit: ANI

Leader of Opposition and DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, who was arrested and brought to Thanjavur on a complaint alleging he made misogynistic remarks seemingly directed at a film actor, was released on Station Bail on Tuesday (August 4, 2026) night after being subjected to questioning at the Sengipatti Police Station.

Also read | Propriety in public discourse: On Udhayanidhi Stalin’s double entendre remarks

Earlier, amidst high drama and tension, Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin was brought to Thanjavur by road, after being arrested in Chennai. He was questioned for over an hour at the Sengipatti Police Station in connection with the case booked against him on charges of making offensive remarks against a woman actor during the DMK’s demonstration on the Cauvery issue in Thanjavur on Monday (August 3, 2026).

Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin walked out of the station at around 8.15 p.m. to a boisterous welcome from the assembled cadres. He waved to the crowd standing through the car’s sunroof and accepted their greetings.

A petition seeking anticipatory bail was filed before the Madras High Court in the morning. During the hearing in the afternoon, Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the police to release Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin today on station bail after questioning. He also directed the Leader of the Opposition to cooperate with the investigation and appear for inquiry as and when required. He is being interrogated at Sengipatti police station in Thanjavur district.

Those who speak in a derogatory manner against women, irrespective of whether they are Opposition leaders, publishers of “yellow magazine”, or those operating fake accounts on social media platforms, would be identified and arrested, said TVK general secretary (election campaign management) and Minister for Public Works and Sports Development Aadhav Arjuna on Tuesday.

Speaking at the meeting of MLAs of TVK and its alliance partners at the party headquarters in Panaiyur on the outskirts of Chennai ahead of the Budget session of the Assembly, Mr. Arjuna said this remains the TVK’s foremost policy and “just as corruption was being eliminated,” the culture of insulting women should also be eradicated.

He said Chief Minister C. Joseph Vijay had never indulged in personal criticism. “Our leader [Vijay] had referred to former Chief Minister M.K. Stalin as ‘Stalin Uncle’ once during a speech in Madurai, purely in the context of a relationship, and had stopped using the expression thereafter.”

Udayanidhi Stalin landed at the Chennai Airport after he was released by police from Sengipatti. He was welcomed at the airport with a rousing reception by his party men and soon left for his home afterward.

DMK Leader of Opposition Udhayanidhi Stalin, speaking to reporters at Tiruchi airport, asserted that he did not intend to hurt anyone, especially women, and he did not indulge in double entendre as alleged by some.

He accused the TVK government of foisting the case to divert attention from the issues facing farmers that he had raised.

Udhayanidhi Stalin released after nearly 90 minutes of questioning at the Sengipatti Station. He is expected to fly to Chennai from the Tiruchi Airport.

Udhayanidhi Stalin released on bail after over an hour of questioning related to offensive remarks against a film actor.

Leader of Opposition Udhayanidhi Stalin, who went inside the Sengipatti police station around 6.45 p.m., is apparently being questioned still as restive DMK cadre wait outside.

Leader of Opposition Udhayanidhi Stalin alights from the police vehicle and waves at the cadre assembled at Sengipatti police station on Tuesday. He has been taken in for questioning — S. Ganesan

DMK cadre assemble in strength in front of Sengiptti police station in Thanjavur district where Udhayanidhi Stalin has been brought in for questioning — S. Ganesan

The convoy transporting Udhayanidhi Stalin has been taken to Sengipatti Police Station in Thanjavur district, well ahead of Thanjavur town. Inspector General of Police Central Zone arrives at Sengipatti Police Station — S. Ganesan

Convoy transporting Leader of Opposition Udhayanidhi Stalin crosses Tiruchi en route to Thanjavur. Heavy security arrangements have been made in Thanjavur town and around the Thanjavur South Police Station where is expected to be brought for questioning. A large number of DMK cadre, carrying party flags and raising slogans against the TVK government, assemble near the police station. — S. Ganesan

DMK president M.K. Stalin, on Tuesday (August 4, 2026), alleged the arrest of Leader of the Opposition Udhayanidhi Stalin was a diversionary tactic by the Tam