Actor and BJP MP Kangana Ranaut has reacted strongly to the controversy surrounding Udhayanidhi Stalin’s remarks about actor Trisha Krishnan, saying his arrest sets a positive example. Sharing her views on Instagram Stories on Tuesday evening, Kangana criticised the comments, describing them as unacceptable in public discourse.Calling out the nature of the remarks, she wrote, “Public display of filthy abuses, double-meaning obscene and vulgar jokes is not acceptable to any civilised society. Mr Stalin was sent to jail for the offence; he might be out on bail by now, but it is a good precedent (sic)."Kangana’s response comes after actor-politician Khushbu Sundar also condemned Udhayanidhi’s speech in a post on X, calling it disrespectful and unbecoming of a public leader.“Heard #Udhayanidhi Stalin’s speech. It was crass, cheap and deeply derogatory; reflecting the very political culture he seems eager to inherit. If those with such a mindset aspire to lead a political party and one day govern the state, then God help us. What else can one expect from people who treat abusing, degrading and insulting women as a form of political theatre, basking in the applause, whistles and laughter of their loyal supporters? And who will know this better but me? Those who normalize such language should remember that once the dignity of women is made a political casualty, no family (including your own ) is immune from the same treatment."The controversy stems from a recent DMK protest held in Thanjavur over the Cauvery water-sharing dispute and Karnataka’s proposed Mekedatu project. While addressing the gathering, Udhayanidhi Stalin was criticising Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam (TVK) leader and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Vijay when sections of the crowd reportedly began chanting Trisha Krishnan’s name.Responding to the chants, Udhayanidhi made a remark in Tamil that roughly translates to, “Wherever water comes, whether it comes or not, water should come there." He immediately clarified that his comment referred to the Cauvery water.Despite the clarification, the statement triggered widespread criticism. The ruling Tamilaga Vettri Kazhagam accused Udhayanidhi of making an offensive and objectifying remark about a woman while addressing a public gathering, turning the issue into a major political controversy.As the backlash intensified, a case was registered against Udhayanidhi in connection with the speech. He was arrested from his Chennai residence on August 4 and was released on bail shortly afterwards.Give your child the gift of confidence! Claim your exclusive TOI Masterclass spot today!