Undone by a meme: Mockery may have dealt a shock to the Modi-led regime – history shows why

In a new book, Kargil hero Vikram Batra’s twin writes about their love for sports as children

Karnataka Congress MLA resigns after DK Shivakumar announces first Cabinet expansion

‘What future do children have if teachers can’t take classes?’: An SIR crisis has hit Mumbai schools

Rush Hour: HC orders Udhyanidhi Stalin’s release, 14 hurt in Air India flight turbulence & more

‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

Did Gen Z protests drive Prashant Kishor’s stunning bye-poll win in Bihar?

How Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’ can help readers understand the hidden costs of AI

How scientist PM Bhargava made school curricula innovative to cultivate a scientific temper in India

Election strategist-turned-politician Prashant Kishor’s victory in the bye-election in Bihar’s Bankipur Assembly constituency on Monday came as a surprise to many, given that the Bharatiya Janata Party had held the seat for more than three decades. Kishor defeated the candidate from the Hindutva party by over 19,000 votes.

Less than nine months ago, during the Assembly polls, the candidate from Kishor’s Jan Suraaj Party finished a distant third in Bankipur. Nitin Nabin had won this seat for a fifth consecutive time. The bye-election became necessary because Nabin, who is now the BJP’s national president, moved to the Rajya Sabha.

When the bye-election was announced, Kishor, whose decision to not contest the Assembly polls himself had been criticised by his supporters, was first to throw his hat in the ring.

On the campaign trail, Kishor trained his guns on the BJP, questioning its choice of chief minister and accusing it of betraying the mandate it had been given by Bihar’s voters. He pitched the contest in Bankipur as a “referendum” on the BJP’s decision to put party member Samrat Choudhary in the chief minister’s chair in April, easing out long-term ally, Nitish Kumar, of the Janata Dal (United).

The result on Monday is likely to provide a fillip to Kishor’s party, which had failed to make a mark in the Assembly elections. Political observers told Scroll that Kishor had benefited from the recent youth protests that began in Delhi but eventually reached Bihar too. They suggested that his party could even emerge as the BJP’s principal opponent in Bihar, replacing the Rashtriya Janata Dal.

लोकतंत्र के महापर्व में बांकीपुर विधानसभा उपचुनाव में जनता ने जनसुराज को चुना है।मैं जनता के इस निर्णय का सम्मान करते हुए श्री प्रशांत किशोर जी को उनकी जीत पर हार्दिक बधाई देता हूँ।

In November, even though the Jan Suraaj Party finished with a 3.3% vote share in the Assembly elections, it did not manage to win any seats. After the elections, Kishor came under fire because his repeated claims that Nitish Kumar’s political career was nearing its end did not seem to bear out: the Janata Dal (United) veteran took oath as chief minister for a record tenth time.

However, political space opened up for Kishor in April when Kumar suddenly stepped down and Bihar got its first chief minister from the BJP. The change of guard allowed Kishor to claim that he was right about Kumar’s political future all along.

Even before the BJP made Samrat Choudhary the chief minister, Kishor had been criticising him for his purportedly dubious educational qualifications and his alleged criminal background. After Choudhary was elevated to the post, Kishor’s attacks grew sharper.

Unlike in the Assembly elections, during the campaign for the Bankipur bye-poll, Kishor focused solely on the BJP. Neither the Janata Dal (United) nor the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the principal Opposition outfit in Bihar, featured in his messaging prominently.

The composition of the electorate in Bankipur appears to have helped him as well. The constituency is located in the heart of Patna and upper-caste groups such as Kayasthas and Banias make up a sizeable chunk of the voting population.

While these communities typically vote for the BJP, Kishor’s image as a “new” and “meritocratic” leader appealed to them, contended the political scientist Ashwani Kumar, who hails from Bihar and has authored a book titled Community Warriors: State, Peasants, and Caste Armies in Bihar.

“You can find a UPSC [Union Public Service Commission] candidate in every second or third house of Bankipur and retired ambassadors, bureaucrats live there,” Kumar said. “They used to associate the ideas of sushasan [good governance] and naya Bihar [new Bihar] with Nitish Kumar. Now they are seeing that possibility in Prashant Kishor.”

The political scientist surmised that the youth protests that also played out in Bihar had a part in Kishor’s victory.

The Jan Suraaj Party founder had come out in support of the protesters after July 20, when the Delhi Police had clamped down heavily on the Cockroach Janta Party’s march to Parliament. “The people of Bankipur will respond [to police brutality i