Move by Canada comes after US president spent morning railing against the country, calling it the ‘most difficult’ nation he deals with

Canada announces retaliatory tariffs on wide range of US goods

Canada has said it will implement 50% retaliatory tariffs on $20bn worth of US goods, following through on prime minister Mark Carney’s vow to match Donald Trump’s duties “dollar for dollar”.

The new tariffs will take effect from 8 September and will impose duties of 15%, 25% and 50% across 700 products, the Canadian government said in a statement.

Canada has said it will implement 50% retaliatory tariffs on $20bn worth of US goods – following through on prime minister Mark Carney’s vow to match Donald Trump’s duties “dollar for dollar”. The list of products affected by Canada’s retaliatory tariffs includes a 50% duty on American steel and aluminum. There is also a 25% tariff on cheese, fish and seafood, as well as several wood products.

Meanwhile, Trump has claimed that the US Navy has informed him that “all mines have been removed and/or detonated” from within the international waters of the strait of Hormuz. The US and Iran ‌have not exchanged air strikes for weeks, but ​attacks on vessels in the strait of Hormuz have continued as the two sides vie for control of the key maritime passage. It remains unclear how or when talks on ending the war between the two sides will resume.

Brooke Rollins, the agriculture secretary, has defended the president’s policy to suspend higher tariffs on foreign beef imports to help mitigate prices for consumers. This comes amid growing criticism among the Republican ranks that the move threatens to hurt the growth of the US cattle industry, which is already facing tough herding conditions. “This is a very short-term fix from the president’s perspective, that he believed necessary to get lower cost beef on to American plates,” Rollins told Spectrum News.

The president, and several lawmakers from both parties, have mourned the death of country music legend Dolly Parton. “This is a true loss for millions of people. There has never been anyone like her, and never will,” Trump wrote on Truth Social. The president added that he would order American flags to be lowered to half-staff throughout the country for one week beginning Tuesday.

And in South Carolina, voters will decide whether they want to establish a Graham family dynasty as they go to the polls today in a Republican run off election, pitting Darline Graham against US Representative Ralph Norman. Trump has endorsed Graham and held a rally for her on Friday in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, The primary election will be another in a series of tests of Trump’s sway with voters in this year’s midterm elections. The primary will decide whether the current Senator Graham or Norman will ⁠be the Republican nominee in the November election.

John Fetterman, a Democratic senator from Pennsylvania who frequently breaks with his party and votes with Republicans, has seen his approval rating drop with Democrats over the last two years, while gaining popularity with the state GOP, according to a New York Times/Philadelphia Inquirer/Siena poll.

Fetterman was the sole Democrat to vote no on several war powers resolutions to curb the Trump administration’s military action in Iran. Earlier this year, he voted to confirm Trump’s pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Markwayne Mullin, and last year Fetterman routinely joined Republicans on key votes to keep the government open – while Senate Democrats withheld support for key appopriations bills to protest expiring Affordable Care Act subsidies.

New polling shows that while 74% of Democrats in the Keystone state had a favorable opinion of Fetterman in 2024 – two years after he won his Senate election – by 2026 that has falled to 22%.

Meanwhile, only 25 % of Pennsylvania Repbublicans viewed Fetterman favorably in 2024. That number has shot up to 73%.

Despite not confirming whether he would seek a second term in office, Fetterman recently said that he has no intention to switch parties. He has, however, issued a caveat – he would consider leaving the Democratic caucus if it became the “anti-Israel party”.

Fetterman has emerged as one of Israel’s most prominent advocates among Senate Democrats, even as others in the party back away from their traditional support for the country amid accusations that prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government committed genocide in Gaza.

Donald Trump has reacted to the news that country music legend Dolly Parton has died.

“This is a true loss for millions of people. There has never been anyone like her, and never will,” the president wrote on Truth Social.

Trump said he would order American flags to lowered to half-staff throughout the country for one week beginning Tuesday.

A number of US lawmakers from both parties honored Parton in tribute posts. Marsha Blackburn, a Republican senator from Parton’s home state of Tennessee, said