Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Members of the All Bihar Students' Union take out a march against the State government over issues including paper leaks, unemployment and irregularities in recruitment, in Patna, Bihar, on August 25, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

A protest by students in Patna turned violent on Tuesday (August 25, 2026) when police used batons and water cannons to stop them from marching to the Bihar Chief Minister’s residence.

Protesting in Patna since August 18, the students have made various demands, including changes to the format of the Teacher Recruitment Examination (TRE), which is currently held in two rounds - preliminary and main. The students are demanding that the test be held in a single phase without negative marks. Other demands include transparency in all competitive examinations, end to alleged discrimination against Hindi-speaking candidates in exams held by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC), and a high-level independent inquiry into previous exam controversies.

ALSO WATCH Bihar student protest: Police use water cannons as BPSC aspirants march towards CM’s residence

On Tuesday (August 25, 2026), hundreds of students gathered at J.P. Golambar near Gandhi Maidan to start the march toward Lok Sevak Awas, the official residence of the Chief Minister. The protesters, backed by the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), All India Students’ Association (AISA) and other student organisations, broke through the police barricades at Dak Bungalow Chowk at the heart of the city, leading to clashes with the police.

Several students as well as police personnel were injured in the scuffle, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police who suffered severe injuries in the stone-pelting by the protesters. A few girl students fainted. Due to the protest and the road blockade, vehicular movement was severely affected, leaving motorists stuck for hours. Many protesters were also detained by the police.

The escalation of the protests also came in the wake of controversial remarks made by BPSC Examination Controller Rajesh Kumar Singh on Monday (August 24, 2026) while addressing a press conference in Patna. To a question regarding the protests by students, Mr. Singh had quoted the Hindi proverb “Hathi chale bazaar, kutta bhaunke hazar” (focused people should ignore irrelevant criticisms). Many students had assumed that Mr. Singh had referred to protesters as “dogs”. Mr. Singh had since expressed regret, saying he had no intention to hurt anyone’s feelings and that he was quoted out of context.

On Monday (August 23, 2026), Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav met the protesting students at the venue and urged the government not to ignore voices of the protesting youth but to establish a positive dialogue with them.

“I demand that immediate and necessary steps be taken in this matter, prioritising the future of lakhs of students and youth in Bihar; otherwise, the united strength of the students and youth will compel the government to do so,” Mr. Yadav had said.

To resolve the problems of students, Bihar Chief Minister Samrat Choudhary had launched the ‘Vidyarthi Sahyog’ portal to convey students’ issues and suggestions directly to the government. Student support camps will also be organised to address students’ grievances on the fourth Tuesday of every month, the government said.

On August 18, the Bihar government issued the notification for 32,388 teaching posts to be filled by the TRE.

The students in the State are also demanding that fair decisions be taken regarding filling up vacant posts for Assistant Professor, relaxation in age limits and 100% domicile-based recruitment in government jobs and teacher appointment, and job security for guest Assistant Professors. They are also pressing for dates for all pending examinations and the issuance of an annual examination calendar covering all exams be made mandatory.

Bihar / demonstration / Communist Party of India-Marxist Leninist Liberation / protest

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.