Latest projection has centre-left bloc leading government parties 175-174 as deputy PM says vote could be undecided until Wednesday

The SVT’s much-awaited projection at 9.45pm local time, using the actual results from 10% of districts in their model, shows the two blocs effectively tied, with the opposition leading by just ONE SEAT in the new parliament.

Social Democratic Party (S) 27.6% Moderates (M) 20.0% Sweden Democrats (SD) 17.5% Left Party (V) 8.2% Centre Party (C) 7.1% Christian Democrats (KD) 6.3% Green Party (MP) 6.2% Liberals (L) 5.5%

If confirmed, it would give a truly extraordinary result: the opposition bloc at 175 seats in the new parliament, and the incumbent government at 174.

The far-right Sweden Democrats leader Jimmie Åkesson is speaking next.

He acknowledges his party has lost a few percentage points compared to 2022, as it most likely loses the status of the second largest party in the country.

But he says how happy he is to see more people “no longer feel uncomfortable” saying they support his party, but “they do so with pride.”

He says the governing bloc “still has a chance to win this,” despite weeks of media commentary “writing us off.”

“We don’t know the exact number, but we are talking about tens of thousands of votes, not hundreds of thousands; a fraction of a percentage point,” he says.

He accepts “we will not find out tonight” who will form the next government.

She points out her party has gained most compared to the 2022 election, with the latest projection giving it 8.1%, up from 6.75% in 2022.

As other leaders, she acknowledges “the result is still unclear; we have to wait a little longer,” and it will be a “nervous” wait.

But says it’s clear her party has done all it could to oust the current government.

“If this [result] stands, Sweden will have a new government” from Magdalena Andersson may be the closest we will get to a conclusive result tonight.

With 84% of votes now counted, her left-leaning coalition continues to lead by a single mandate in the new parliament.

Chatting to journalists after her speech, Andersson stresses the need to “keep a cool head” until all the results are in.

But repeatedly pushed on this point by journalists, she says she believes it is possible to form and run a government with a one-seat majority.

She also repeats her call for “a new spirit of cooperation,” including on things like energy policies.

Andersson begins with praising the beauty of democracy, and everyone having an equal vote, “one of the finest things humanity has ever come up with.”

She also thanks everyone in the party who helped during the campaign, particularly away from TV cameras. “You have achieved something historic,” she says.

She says “we await the final result,” and “every single vote cast must be counted.”

“But my message is clear: we, Social Democrats, will always stand ready to take responsibility for the outcome.”

She says the extremely close result of the vote points to the need for “a new spirit of cooperation” in Swedish politics.

But eventually she does make a passing comment on the current provisional results:

“Right now, we are in the lead, and if this holds, Sweden will have a new government. But we must wait for the final result,” she says.

Oh, the Social Democratic leader Magdalena Andersson is up next.

The Christian Democrats leader (and deputy prime minister) Ebba Busch is the next leader to speak.

She comes to stage with a prop – a red ace of hearts – claiming the government parties are now making gains.

She says the election may prove to be “a real nailbiter,” with the final result uncertain until Wednesday.

“Every single vote must be counted,” she says, as she concedes Swedes may go to bed tonight uncertain about who will form the future government.

The Liberal party’s leader Simona Mohamsson is unsurprisingly delighted with the projected numbers given her party polled below the threshold not long ago (20:20).

She calls the result “a historic comeback,” and says it shows the party’s hard work during the campaign paid off.

She tells the party faithful to enjoy the moment, and says the outcome of the election is not decided yet.

Interestingly, neither PM Ulf Kristersson nor his main challenger Magdalena Andersson has taken to the stage so far tonight.

They are no doubt reading the blog waiting for the final results.

Centre Party’s leader Elisabeth Thand Ringqvist is the next party leader to speak tonight and she celebrates “what a campaign we have had.”

She says the party succeeded in making the campaign all about its policies, and “optimism and faith in the future.”

If the current figures hold, her party will marginally improve its 2022 result with 7.1%, up from 6.7%.