Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Chinese President Xi Jinping, left, and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi pose for a photo during an official welcome ceremony of the BRICS Summit in New Delhi, India, on September 12, 2026. | Photo Credit: AP

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the summit on Saturday (September 12, 2026).

The two leaders welcomed the steady progress in India-China bilateral relations since their last meeting in Tianjin in August 2025 and also reaffirmed that both countries should take a strategic and long-term perspective on their ties.

Earlier, the BRICS member nations signed the New Delhi Declaration 2026. The Declaration reaffirmed the BRICS commitment to a more representative, fair and inclusive global order, with stronger multilateralism and greater participation of emerging and developing economies in global decision-making.

Also read | India uses BRICS chairship to drive focus on MSMEs and their development

The grouping backed reforms of the United Nations, including the Security Council, and said developing countries must have a greater voice in international institutions. China and Russia reiterated support for the aspirations of Brazil and India to play a greater role in the UN, including its Security Council.

Chinese President Xi Jinping outlines four points to ensure the long-term, steady development of China-India relations.

First, the two sides should adopt an objective and rational strategic understanding to set the right direction. “This strategic judgment is based on the development stage and international circumstances of both countries and serves the common interests of the two nations and their peoples,” according to reports.

Second, the two sides should help each other succeed through cooperation and mutual benefit. Both should focus on development as their greatest common interest, strengthen friendly exchanges and mutually beneficial cooperation, expand collaboration in areas such as people-to-people exchanges and direct flights, and improve public support for bilateral relations. They should also address trade and economic concerns in a balanced manner and promote the healthy and stable growth of economic ties.

Third, the two sides should use political wisdom grounded in mutual respect and understanding to remove obstacles. They should pursue progress on bilateral relations and the boundary question in parallel, ensuring that each supports the other, and maintain peace and tranquillity in border areas.

Fourth, the two sides should advance openness and inclusiveness through multilateral cooperation. They should support each other’s BRICS presidencies, strengthen cooperation within multilateral frameworks such as the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the G20, work together to address global challenges, and firmly uphold international fairness and justice.

Indian PM Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping took note of the progress in people-to-people ties and underscored the need to further promote cultural exchanges, business linkages and greater mobility between the two countries. On economic and trade relations, they underlined the need to address each other’s concerns, including structural trade imbalance and supply chain issues, and facilitation of meaningful and predictable market access.

The two leaders agreed that both sides must continue to expand common ground on regional and global issues, and in addressing challenges, said a statement by MEA.

“Prime Minister appreciated China’s support for India’s BRICS chairship and its contributions towards the success of the BRICS Summit-2026,” reads the statement.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi told ‌China’s President ‌Xi ‌Jinping that peace ⁠and ⁠tranquility in ‌border ‌areas remain ⁠an essential basis for continued ⁠development ⁠of ‌bilateral relations, reported India’s Foreign Ministry.

The leaders underscored ‌the ‌need ‌to ⁠further ⁠promote business ‌linkages ‌and greater ⁠mobility ‌between ‌the two ⁠countries.

Chinese President Xi Jinping told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their meeting today that China views ties with India from a strategic and long-term perspective.

Mr. Xi said China, India can learn from each other’s strengths, achieve shared development during their meeting on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in New Delhi.

China, India should join hands for high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation He said both countries can learn from each other’s strengths, achieve shared development.

China, India should advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world, he said, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic of China, on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit in New 