Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

File photo for representational purposes only. | Photo Credit: Reuters

India on Sunday (September 13, 2026) condemned an attack on a Panama-flagged oil tanker off the coast of Oman that resulted in one Indian seafarer being reported missing.

The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said 13 other Indian crew members of the vessel, MT El Gaia, were rescued.

"We condemn the attack on the commercial vessel MT El Gaia off the coast of Oman earlier today. Of the 14 Indian crew onboard, 13 Indians have been rescued so far," it said.

Our statement on the attack on a commercial vessel off the coast of Oman ⬇️🔗 https://t.co/u78n9UGNFFpic.twitter.com/RjCOaDMQQL

"Search and rescue operations for the missing Indian national are continuing. Our embassy in Oman is closely monitoring the situation and proactively coordinating with the Omani authorities in the ongoing search and rescue operation," the MEA said in a statement.

The Indian side thanked Omani authorities for their support in rescuing the Indian seafarers. "We reiterate our call for immediate de-escalation of tensions and pursuance of dialogue and diplomacy to bring peace to the region," the MEA said.

"The targeting of commercial shipping, seafarers, civilians, and civilian infrastructure in the region is unacceptable," it added.

New Delhi has been concerned over attacks on commercial shipping as most of the vessels usually have Indian seafarers.

Speaking at the BRICS summit on Saturday (September 13, 2026), Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed the creation of a "Seafarers' Emergency Support Network" to safeguard them from security risks due to regional conflicts.

Ten Indian seafarers are among the 16 Indians killed so far in the West Asia conflict, while another five Indian seafarers have died in strikes on merchant vessels in the Black Sea. "We also urge that free and safe navigation and flow of commerce through the international waterways in the region be restored at the earliest," the MEA said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.