Actor Susan Sarandon, whistleblower Chelsea Manning and comedian Caleb Hearon are detained by NYPD

More than 100 people were arrested outside the United Nations’ headquarters in New York City on Thursday as Benjamin Netanyahu addressed the general assembly, a speech that also prompted dozens of UN delegates to walk out in protest.

The protest outside the UN, one of several this week against the embattled Israeli prime minister, drew hundreds of Jewish, Palestinian, Iranian and Lebanese New Yorkers, among others, as well as several elected officials and candidates in the November election, and a number of celebrities.

Many wore shirts reading “Fund people not bombs” and chanted slogans like “Let Gaza live” and “the whole world is watching.” Official vehicles heading to the UN were diverted as protesters sat down in the middle of the street for more than an hour, unfurling banners that called to “end the genocide” and flying a kite reading “Free Palestine” – a reference to Israel’s threat earlier this year that it would target Palestinian children flying kites, organizers said.

A few hours later, an estimated few thousand people marched from nearby Bryant Park to the UN in protest of Netanyahu’s visit to the city. Swathed in keffiyehs and carrying Palestinian flags, accompanied by a brass band and drummers, protesters held banners calling on UN member states to sanction Israel, others with illustrations of Netanyahu’s face.

“The US and Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu are using the UN as a bully pulpit to basically project their vision of the world, which is one based on brute force and international crimes of aggression and illegal forever wars,” said Nas Issa of the Palestinian Youth Movement, which planned the afternoon protest. “It’s incumbent on member states of the UN to challenge the immunity that America and Israel have enjoyed for decades, but particularly in the past three years since the start of the Gaza genocide.”

On Wednesday, members of the Democratic Socialists of America’s New York City chapter rallied at the city’s John F Kennedy international airport in protest of weapons and explosive materials destined for the Israeli military being flown out of the airport on commercial aircraft.

“What we made clear today is that New Yorkers, including Jewish New Yorkers, do not want war criminals and the architects of genocide coming to our city,” said Beth Miller, political director of Jewish Voice for Peace Action, which coordinated the first protest outside the UN. “This is something that we have been saying for years, especially over the last three years during which Israel has killed over 75,000 Palestinians in this genocide – and to be clear that is a severe undercount.”

Protests have long been a staple of Netanyahu’s appearances at the UN, but as Israel’s political isolation has deepened against the backdrop of its destruction of Gaza, the tone of this year’s demonstrations reflect many Americans’ growing anger at their own government’s continued support to the Israeli military.

“We will not be silent as our government fully funds a genocide in Palestine,” said actor Hannah Einbinder, who has frequently spoken out for Palestinians’ rights and who was arrested on Thursday, ahead of the protest. “This moment calls on each and every one of us to speak out and demand the US stop funding genocide.”

She said she felt a moral obligation to join the protests “as a Jew, as an American, and as a human being”.

Fellow actors Susan Sarandon and Debra Winger, whistleblower Chelsea Manning and comedian Caleb Hearon were also among those detained by the NYPD, along with model and actor Indya Moore, author Glennon Doyle, activist Linda Sarsour, rabbi Abby Stein and writer David Valesco. Many demonstrators remained on the scene after police ordered them to disperse, but they did not appear to resist arrest.

Opposition to Israel’s war in Gaza has prompted a seismic shift in US public opinion of Israel, a change that has begun to trickle into US elections, with scores of leftist candidates winning primaries earlier this year while openly calling to end US aid to Israel. While reflexive support for Israel was once a prerequisite for anyone running for office, in some districts it has increasingly become a liability.

Many of the openly pro-Palestinian candidates who seized primary wins earlier this year were also at Thursday’s protest, including New York’s Darializa Avila Chevalier and Brad Lander, Pennsylvania’s Chris Rabb, New Jersey’s Adam Hamawy, and Colorado’s Melat Kiros. Several New York City and state officials and candidates were also in attendance and at least 10 were arrested, including city council members Chi Ossé and Tiffany Cabán.

“I think it is really important to send a message that New Yorkers do not stand for this,” Chevalier, a pro-Palestinian activist whose primary win in June stunned the political establishment, told reporters at the protest shortly before being arrested. “It is really 