The opposition’s defence spokesperson, James Paterson, has questioned the timing of the prime minister’s announcement that an AI agent hacked Medicare.

Paterson made the claim on the ABC’s 7.30 program last night after Anthony Albanese publicly disclosed that an AI agent developed by OpenAI hacked Medicare in June and that the tech giant only notified the government earlier this month using an email sent to a “public mailbox”.

Paterson told 7.30 he believed Albanese had chosen to make the announcement at the UN summit in New York, as part of his effort to stand up to “big tech” on AI.

double quotation markThe government has questions to answer about when they knew and … why the prime minister decided to disclose it in the way he did in the place he did at the time he did. But in terms of the nature of the potential of actual security breach this is the bottom end of the spectrum of seriousness.

I don’t think it was a coincidence. I think it neatly dove-tailed with the political agenda the prime minister has in New York City.

Paterson said he didn’t consider the breach to be overly serious because the data the AI agent accessed was made freely available to researchers and academics studying the health system, and was not personal or private in nature.

He said the breach was cause for “being alert but not alarmed”.

Nevertheless, he said Australians were “entitled to demand explanations and contrition” and to want high levels of confidence when entering into agreements with big tech companies such as OpenAI.

Technology experts have warned revelations an artificial intelligence agent hacked Medicare’s internal systems will not be the only dangerous breach of government data and have called for Australia to boost its protections against the growing risk.

The Australian Council on AI Strategy chief executive, Anna-Maria Arabia, said the case was unlikely to be an isolated incident.

“All of the evidence shows that our operating systems are vulnerable,” she told Guardian Australia.

double quotation markFrontier AI now has capability to expose those vulnerabilities at a rate quicker than we can keep up, quicker than we can patch them.

Jane Hume says AI breach should be warning bell that we need more AI in Australia

Jane Hume, the deputy leader of the opposition, was on Sunrise this morning talking about the AI breach.

She questioned security on government websites and wondered what would have happened if the breach were more serious:

double quotation markWhat if it was a less benign breach? What if it was a less benign actor? Let’s face it, clearly, Services Australia’s cybersecurity is woefully inadequate.

I mean the irony here is that you actually need AI to fight AI. This should hasten, if anything, our move over in the US to less finger wagging and Trump one-upmanship, and more about embracing these AI companies and bringing them here so that we can have frontier models providing sovereign capability to Australia. Because AI is going to happen.

Hume said the incident should be a “warning bell” to make sure we “get on with the job of making sure that we have that capability here”.

The first reported artificial intelligence agent hack into an Australian government website is a “wake-up call” of the dangers of the technology, Anthony Albanese says.

AAP reports the prime minister spoke to a predecessor, former prime minister Kevin Rudd, who now heads up the Asia Society, in New York. Albanese said the hack was cause for concern about whether “humans remain in charge”.

double quotation markThis was an AI agent acting independently of its instructions, that is learning by itself. So it’s a bit of a wake-up call … about the risks.

This technology is moving very very fast, and we need to make sure that we have a responsibility to keep on top of it.

Charlton says AI incidents likely to become ‘more and more prevalent’

Andrew Charlton, the assistant minister for science, technology and the digital economy, said yesterday’s reported hack of Medicare by an OpenAI agent was a “novel” moment for cybersecurity, but was likely to become “more and more prevalent in the future”.

Charlton spoke to RN Breakfast this morning, saying the government wanted to tell the Australian public “as quickly as possible” about the breach. When pressed why it took Services Australia five days to notify the Australian Signals Directorate about the episode, Charlton said the true blame laid on OpenAI’s slow and “completely inadequate” response:

double quotation markIn this type of situation, you know, you would expect for an incident which is as serious as this, you would expect that disclosure to be delivered in a very serious way. It was not delivered in a very serious way, it was delivered via an email to a public inbox.

He said the government is still looking at any legal action and there were questions about liability as an AI agent was “not a legal person”.

Falling methamphetamine prices have helped push overdose de