Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

A federal judge ordered the Trump administration to temporarily restore access to CNN, MS NOW, and Politico. President Trump last week banned the networks from covering White House events. U.S. District Judge Timothy Kelly issued a 14-day temporary restraining order after the three outlets had their press credentials revoked. The networks have filed a joint lawsuit against Trump, alleging their constitutional rights were violated, and sought a restraining order to continue reporting from the White House as the case proceeds.

Broadcast news workspaces are seen outside the White House in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. Alex Wroblewski/AFP via Getty Images hide caption

China's leader Xi Jinping and Trump have important talks ahead when they meet at the White House today. The meeting will be Xi's first U.S. state visit in 11 years. It comes at a pivotal time for both men. The U.S. midterm elections are just over a month away, and Xi will start preparing for a Party Congress upon his return.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned the United Nations General Assembly that Russia's war against Ukraine poses a global threat, describing it as a "crazy war" led by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian also addressed the world body, criticizing the U.S. He said that the U.S. describes Iran as terrorists, but they are actually victims of terrorism. He showed photos of children he said were victims of a U.S. bombing of an Iranian school and a portrait of the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed on the war's first day. The Trump administration says it wants to promote peace negotiations in these conflicts.

Tucker Carlson talking to NPR's Steve Inskeep during a Newsmakers interview. Nickolai Hammar/NPR hide caption

Go face-to-face with the person of the moment. NPR's Newsmakers video podcast brings the biggest names in politics, business, sports, arts, and culture out of the headlines and into the interview chair to discuss the mark they're making on the world. Follow the Newsmakers podcast or subscribe to NPR's YouTube channel to get new episodes as soon as they're available.

Tucker Carlson has experienced various phases in his career. He's the founder of the Daily Caller website and became an internet personality with a massive following after he was fired from his job at Fox News. Carlson has shown strong support for Trump and even spoke on his behalf at the 2024 Republican convention. But he has since distanced himself from the president over the war in Iran. Carlson suggests that Israel influenced Trump to initiate the war, and outside forces control both American political parties. In a wide-ranging conversation with Morning Edition's Steve Inskeep, Carlson also discusses the possibility of a third political party, his faith, Trump's profit-making activities while in office, and what he thinks he should have done differently during his time as a cable-TV partisan.

Watch or listen to the interview or read the article about their discussion.

Michel Martin (right) and her brother, Norman McQueen Jr. (left) Family photo hide caption

Memory is a tricky thing. Until we started preparing our coverage of the 25th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, I did not remember that six years after 9/11, I had interviewed my brother about his memories of that day. My brother was an officer with the New York Fire Patrol, a now-defunct, business-funded group that responded to fires in business-heavy areas. He was a firefighter through and through, and a second-generation one at that ( our father was FDNY). My brother took it so seriously that he studied fire science in college. He was also a "rescuer;" it was hard to get somewhere on time with him because if he saw somebody who needed help — lifting groceries, pushing a wheelchair, changing a tire — he just had to stop.

I probably didn't remember that I had interviewed him because what came next was too painful. Because it turns out that somebody who really needed help was him.

My brother took his own life on May 10, 2010. Rarely a day goes by that I don't think of him. But just because I thought about him doesn't mean I could talk about him; for a long time, I couldn't. Sometimes when the subject of suicide came up, I would want to — or literally have to — leave wherever I was. Not helpful if you're in the news business.

I've come to realize I have to talk about it — we have to talk about it. Suicide is a public health crisis, and that crisis is becoming acute in the Black community. Black suicide rates are climbing, increasing about 50% over the past 10 years. And the suicide rates among black youth are increasing particularly dramatically. In fact, the rate of black youth suicides by firearms exceeded that of white youth in