CJP to start nationwide protest if CEC Gyanesh Kumar does not resign in 48 hours

India rejects Organisation of Islamic Cooperation remarks on J&K as ‘unwarranted’

Bengal again: Muslim man and three sons picked up from home. Police say they have been ‘deported’

Gujarat HC refuses to release journalist Ravi Nair from custody in Adani defamation case

Wendell Berry spent his life farming, writing. His legacy is an ethic of care for the natural world

Delhi history: How Sanjay Gandhi’s ‘beautification’ drive cost the Congress its goodwill

Rush Hour: Report on dissent in EC sparks row, Gujarat court declines to release Ravi Nair & more

How John Coltrane is my bridge between two loves – jazz and Carnatic music

‘Shaque’ review: There’s a suspicion of a smart thriller here

Podcast: How a Jain merchant family navigated business, from Mughal India to modern Ahmedabad

Four members of a Bengali Muslim family have been missing for about 40 days after the police picked them up from their home in Murshidabad, accusing them of being undocumented Bangladeshi migrants, their family member told Scroll on Thursday.

The police confirmed to Scroll that the four men were handed over to the Border Security Force and claimed that they had been sent to Bangladesh.

Dablu Sheikh, 60, and his three sons – 29-year-old Kayem Sheikh, 20-year-old Rajaul Sheikh and 16-year-old Asmaul Sheikh – were picked up by plain-clothes police personnel from their home in Baliaghati village, said his wife, Jahanara Bibi.

This was done either on the night of August 13 or August 14, “although the exact date could not be recalled by Dablu Sheikh’s wife”, stated human rights group Banglar Manabadhikar Suraksha Mancha.

Dablu Sheikh and Kayem Sheikh had featured on the electoral rolls of West Bengal after the special intensive revision exercise and voted in the 2026 Assembly elections. Scroll has verified their names in the electoral roll.

Dablu Sheikh’s father, Sk Samjani, was also a voter in the Suti Assembly constituency in 1966 and 1995.

Bibi said that the police have not given her any information about the whereabouts of her husband and sons since they were picked up. She rejected the police allegations that they are Bangladeshi.

“Police asked us whether we have any Bangladeshi document,” said Bibi. “We told them we do not know where Bangladesh is. We have not seen Bangladesh.”

Avijit Basu Mallick, the inspector-in-charge of Suti police station, said that the four persons were Bangladeshi nationals and “have been deported to Bangladesh”. Scroll could not confirm if the BSF had deported Dablu Sheikh and his sons.

“The family can speak lies,” Mallick told Scroll. “They are Bangladeshi.”

When asked if a first information had been registered against them, he said: “There is no need of a case under the Foreigners Act.”

He added that they were detained under a Union home ministry circular from May 2025 and sent to the Jangipur holding centre.

Scroll has written to the Jangipur superintendent of police for a comment. The copy will be updated if a response is received.

In May, soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power, the West Bengal government announced it was setting up holding centres – to house alleged undocumented migrants – as part of a “detect, delete, deport” policy.

Scroll’s reporting has revealed that at least 10 Muslim men and two children have been picked up by the West Bengal Police since June and accused them of being Bangladeshis. The case of Dablu Sheikh and his sons takes the number of such detentions to 16.

Also read: In Bengal, Muslims picked up from homes in midnight raids, sent to detention centres

The Banglar Manabadhikar Suraksha Mancha, or MASUM, on Thursday wrote to the West Bengal home secretary against the “arbitrary arrest, illegal detention, unlawful branding as ‘Bangladeshi’ and alleged push-back of” Dablu Sheikh and his sons.

The organisation stated that it “found material circumstances which raise serious questions regarding the official claim that Dablu Sheikh and his sons are foreign nationals”.

It also pointed out that despite electoral rolls indicating the family’s “long-standing presence and civic status in India”, the police had wrongfully branded them “Bangladeshi”.

MASUM also noted that the four detained persons possess an Aadhaar card, ration card and other residence-related documents.

“These circumstances call for a transparent and independent verification rather than an unexplained administrative declaration that the family is Bangladeshi,” the organisation stated.

In May 2025, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs directed the states and Union Territories to verify the credentials of persons suspected to be undocumented migrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar.

Since the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pahalgam in April 2025, the police in several states, most of them ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, have been detaining Bengali-speaking persons – mostly Muslims – and asking th