A man whose parents were travelling on a Bihar-registered bus that caught fire on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida said his father is still missing while his injured mother is hospitalised. “ My home has been devastated. What will I do with ₹2 lakh? Now I have nothing left,” he said, as he spoke about the loss his family has suffered.

The bus, travelling from Delhi to Mahoba in Bihar and carrying more than 35 people, was engulfed in flames late Wednesday night. Nine people were killed, while 20 were rescued.

Also read | Greater Noida bus that caught fire had 9 challans in Delhi for overspeeding, improper parking

Sarvoday Bharadwaj said his parents were travelling to attend a family gathering following the death of his grandmother when the incident took place. He recalled speaking to them around 10 pm, but was unable to contact them the following morning.

"My grandmother passed away yesterday. My parents were travelling to be with the family when this tragedy happened. I spoke to them at around 10 pm. Everything was fine. At 6 in the morning, I tried tracking the bus, but the location was unavailable. Their phones were switched off," Sarvoday told NDTV.

Sarvoday also said that his mother was injured while attempting to leave the bus after the fire broke out. His father, who had undergone surgery on his leg and had a rod in it, was unable to move quickly during the chaos.

Also read | Blast in AC set engine oil ablaze: What caused Greater Noida bus fire that killed 9

"My mother tried to get out of the bus but fell. People climbed over her in the chaos. She has an injury to her eye and a fractured rib. My father has a rod in his leg. He could not move quickly or get out. He is still missing," said Sarvoday.

Sarvoday also alleged that his attempts to obtain information from the bus company were unsuccessful.

"I kept asking the bus agency, 'At least give me a number so I can find out where my parents are.' But they did not cooperate," Sarvoday said.

"Accidents keep happening in India: a plane crashes, a train meets with an accident, a bus catches fire. Where is the safety? This must be investigated-how the fire started, how quickly it spread, and whether the exit door was locked," Sarvoday added.

The bus that caught fire on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida, had nine challans in Delhi, mostly for overspeeding and improper parking, DCP Traffic Central Range K Ramesh said on Thursday.

“This bus has nine challans in Delhi, mostly for overspeeding and improper parking,” Ramesh told ANI.

The bus, bearing registration number BR32PA8647, was travelling from Kashmere Gate in New Delhi to Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh when it caught fire near the 33-km milestone on the expressway in the Jewar police station area.

Kumar said a preliminary investigation indicated that a spark or blast in the air-conditioning system might have caused the engine lubricant oil to catch fire, following which the blaze spread rapidly.

Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Ajeet Kumar Singh said the incident occurred around 11.20 pm on Wednesday and said the fire was caused by a short circuit.

The FIR was registered at the Jewar police station on a complaint by passenger Suneel Kumar, a resident of Hamirpur district.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More