Arunachal environmental activist booked by CBI for allegedly receiving illegal foreign funds

20 TMC MPs who had merged with Tripura-based NCPI to join BJP, claims rebel leader

CBI mentions Uddhav, Aaditya Thackeray in Sushant Singh Rajput’s former manager death case

A new irrigation project threatens to displace both cheetahs and humans in Kuno

Why do anti-reservation ideologues love the creamy layer so much?

Rush Hour: Tarun Tejpal surrenders, Thackerays mentioned in Disha Salian death case and more

Elon Musk, Sam Altman say they agree with Anthropic CEO on ‘slowing down’ AI development

Divide among BRICs nations exposed as Houthi rebels seize oil chokepoint in Red Sea

Food history: How the French ‘stole’ and transplanted cloves in their colonies in the 18th century

Houthi rebel forces have seized the Yemeni port of Mokha as well as Mayyun Island overlooking the Bab el-Mandab strait. This gives Iran’s most powerful remaining proxy force in the Middle East nearly complete control of Yemen’s entire Red Sea coast.

Directly or indirectly, Tehran now has a chokehold on around 12% of global trade that passes through that waterway. It is also maintaining its pressure on the Strait of Hormuz, which has already led to a cut of flows there from about 9 million barrels of oil a day to between 3.7 and 6.4 million.

The day after the Houthis took control of the Bab al-Mandab Strait, Brics leaders assembled in New Delhi, for their 18th annual summit. Brics is the group of “emerging economies” which formed around Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa in 2006, to counter western influence in global institutions. It has since added six permanent members: Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Indonesia. A further ten countries, Belarus, Bolivia, Kazakhstan, Cuba, Malaysia, Nigeria, Thailand, Uganda, Uzbekistan and Vietnam joined as “partner countries” in 2025.

According to its own figures, Brics represents 49.5% of the global population, 40% of global GDP and 26% of global trade. But the conflict in the Middle East is exposing deep divisions in the bloc. This is clear from a reading of the New Delhi declaration, which has no mention of the Red Sea, Bab el-Mandab, Yemen or the Houthis. It contains no reference to shipping, to maritime security, or to freedom of navigation.

But Houthi control of Bab el-Mandab leaves Saudi Arabia exposed. Its east-west pipeline across the kingdom, built to bypass Hormuz, terminates on the Red Sea coast the Houthis now overlook. It had been running at full capacity, before being shut down after strikes from Iranian proxies in Iraq and the Houthis’ subsequent seizure of Yemen’s Red Sea coastline.

Egypt, meanwhile, depends on revenue from the Suez canal. The shipping traffic that underpins this income significantly decreased in early 2024 as the result of an earlier Houthi campaign against shipping lanes in the Red Sea and has struggled to recover since.

The latest Houthi advances are not going to improve the outlook on maritime traffic that insurers have already treated as high-risk for months. The resulting increased costs are likely to continue to deter traffic through the Red Sea.

The UAE suspended all trade and financial transactions with Iran in late August. This move came after Iran allegedly attacked a ship owned by the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company in the Strait of Hormuz and launched two ballistic missiles into UAE territorial waters there.

All this came on top of UAE claims in May that Iran had fired 3,000 missiles and drones at it in the first two months of the US war against Iran alone.

China and India, the world’s largest oil importers, need the Strait of Hormuz open to keep global oil and gas prices low. Both also depend on it as a trade route that the Northern Sea Route through the Arctic is unlikely to replace soon.

By contrast, Russia, whose own exports travel by other routes, is the one Brics member whose economic outlook improves as these Iranian-controlled chokepoints tighten. This is not an accident. In testimony to US lawmakers this month, Russia and China were both singled out as supporters of the Houthis alongside Iran.

Russian personnel in Sana'a, Yemen’s capital, have supplied technical and targeting support for attacks on Red Sea shipping. Most weapons smuggling to the Houthis is now apparently routed through Chinese companies – and a satellite firm tied to China’s military has been accused of providing intelligence used against commercial vessels.

For China, supporting the Houthis may be a way to get assurances for the safety of its own ships transiting the Red Sea. For Russia, it’s mostly about being able to use the Strait to increase its profits from oil sales to India and China, the two countries that now account for 80% of all Russian oil exports.

These divisions – and the obvious inability to speak with one voice on the situation in the Middle East – are eroding Brics’ claim that it speaks for the global south against an orde