Lithuanian soldiers are securing the area where Italian fighter jets during NATO's Baltic Air Policing Mission shot down a drone early this morning near Pratkunai village, Kaisiadorys district some 90km (55,9 miles) northwest of the capital Vilnius, Lithuania, Tuesday. AP hide caption

VILNIUS, Lithuania — NATO fighter jets shot down a drone that entered Lithuanian airspace overnight, officials said Tuesday, the day after the head of NATO said strikes close to its territory would only increase its support for Ukraine in its war against Russia's full-scale invasion.

Military officials in Lithuania, a NATO member, said the incident marked the first time that a drone had been shot down in its airspace. Authorities didn't comment on the drone's origin or purpose, saying the incident needed further investigation.

The drone in Lithuania was downed near the village of Pratkūnai, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) west of the capital, Vilnius, and near the Kaunas Reservoir, Lithuania's National Crisis Management Center said Tuesday.

Officials in NATO countries including Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom, and Poland have in recent weeks accused Russia of involvement in acts such as drone incursions, sabotage, arson, surveillance of defense facilities and planning to use a drone carrying explosives to attack an airport.

Rutte on Monday said strikes "close to NATO territory" showed Russian President Vladimir Putin's "desperation and also his desire to sow fear and terror."

"Russia is growing increasingly reckless as it continues its terrible war against Ukraine," Rutte said. He also pledged to bolster the 32-nation alliance's own defenses along its long eastern border with Russia and with Belarus, a Russian ally.

The menace of drones has repeatedly loomed over the skies of Lithuania, which shares borders with Belarus and the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad. In May, residents of Vilnius were told to take shelter and the president and prime minister were taken to safe locations amid an alarm over drone activity near the border with Belarus.

Stray Ukrainian drones have also previously crossed the border into Baltic airspace, including in May when a NATO fighter jet shot down a Ukrainian drone over southern Estonia.

Antanas Matutis, commander of the Lithuanian air force, said that the wreckage had been found, and the drone was "likely" carrying explosives.

Vilmantas Vitkauskas, head of the crisis center, told Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT that the drone most likely entered from Belarus. It remained in Lithuanian airspace for about 30 minutes and flew along the outskirts of populated areas before being intercepted, he said.

In a separate encounter Tuesday, Denmark's Foreign Ministry said that a Danish air force helicopter had been fired upon with flares in connection with "routine photographic coverage" of a Russian frigate in waters off the port of Gedser in the Baltic Sea.

"This is completely unacceptable," the ministry wrote on X, saying that the Russian ambassador was summoned over the incident.

Meanwhile, Russia's ambassador to Denmark, Vladimir Barbin, addressed the incident by saying it was "not the first time" that Danish Air Force helicopters had "carried out dangerous maneuvers near Russian warships."

He also said that the Danish helicopter had carried out "provocative actions against the Russian frigate."

The Kremlin declined to comment Tuesday, with presidential spokesperson Dmitry Peskov saying that he did not have details of the event.

Meanwhile, Russian drone strikes continued across Ukraine following a social media post from U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday that Russia and Ukraine had agreed "not to hit" each other's energy infrastructure.

Trump didn't offer further details on the purported agreement. Previous efforts to broker even a partial ceasefire have repeatedly fallen apart within hours, with both sides accusing each other of violations.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said late Monday that Kyiv was "ready to support de-escalation" if the United States could ensure "Russia is genuinely ready to stop this war."

But Zelenskyy said in a statement on Tuesday that Moscow had continued to attack Ukraine's energy sector, logistics and critical infrastructure, and that Kyiv had responded by striking an oil refinery in Syzran, a city in western Russia.

"There is no alternative to ending this war. And all forms of pressure on Russia must create the right diplomatic conditions," Zelenskyy said.

The Kremlin said Tuesday that it considered Trump's proposal for a ceasefire on energy infrastructure to be "a good idea."

However, it stressed that strikes on Russian oil refineries were not the root cause of global supply issues for gas or diesel.

"The core problem lies in the export of petroleum products to global markets," said Peskov. He said that countries instead needed to guarantee safe navigation for oil tankers and lift global sanctions on Russian oil.

Ukraine's State Emer