A Merchant Discount Rate (MDR) of 0.4% will be applicable on person-to-merchant UPI transactions above Rs 2,000 from October 15, 2026, as per the latest notification from NPCI. It is important to note that person-to-person transactions will continue to be free with no MDR applicable.Merchant Discount Rate (MDR) is essentially a fee that a merchant incurs when accepting payments for goods or services through credit or debit cards. It is generally calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount and is deducted by the bank before the remaining payment is credited to the merchant.Why is MDR being introduced for UPI transactions above Rs 2,000? What does this mean for the common man? NPCI has released a comprehensive list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) that it has answered.MDR on UPI Transactions: FAQs AnsweredBelow is the full list of FAQs released by NPCI for consumers to understand the impact of MDR:Why is this Merchant Discount Rate (MDR) being introduced now? UPI processes billions of transactions every month. The MDR is distributed only amongst the UPI ecosystem, to further invest into infrastructure resiliency, innovation, cybersecurity (protecting the UPI Infrastructure with banks and non-banks) and customer service. UPI is a home-grown payment system, and its charges (MDR) are much lower than other payment instruments such as Credit Cards, Debit Cards, Wallets etc. The charges are kept very reasonable and will be applicable only for transactions above Rs 2,000 to ensure UPI remains the most affordable mode of accepting payments.Will small-value UPI transactions be impacted?There is no impact on small-value UPI transactions up to Rs 2,000, which comprise more than 95% of the total volume of UPI (P2M) transactions. The intent of levying reasonable MDR is to ensure that UPI remains accessible and convenient for everyday transactions while supporting long-term ecosystem sustainability.What MDR is being introduced for merchants on UPI transactions?A MDR of 0.4% will be introduced on Person-to-Merchant (P2M) UPI transactions above Rs 2,000/-. For transactions of Rs 75,000/- and above, the MDR will be capped at Rs 300 per transaction.Will ordinary consumers be charged for making payments via UPI?No, UPI services will continue without any cost to consumers. Consumers can continue to transact free-of-cost using UPI as they have been doing till now. Consumers making payments through UPI will not face any charges. Individual account holders can continue using UPI applications for all routine, daily expenses without worrying about any charges. The MDR policy ensures that UPI remains free and accessible for all citizens across India.Is there any charge for UPI’s Person-to-Person (P2P) transactions like sending money to friends, family, or personal contacts?No, P2P transactions will continue to be free-of-cost for both payer as well as beneficiary. There will be no charges for any person transferring or receiving any amount to or from any other person (or even self-transfers) using UPI.Whether you are transferring money to a family member, splitting a bill with friends, or performing self-transfers across your own linked bank accounts, zero charges apply. Citizens can freely make transfers on UPI of any permitted amount without incurring any transaction fees.Will UPI Apps start charging platform fee on UPI payments?No, UPI App providers shall NOT charge Platform Fee or any other charge for any payment made through UPI. UPI applications are explicitly restricted from levying platform fees on UPI transactionsWill consumer prices rise at stores if merchants start paying a nominal fee?No, market dynamics and historical payment trends show that merchants absorb nominal digital processing costs to drive higher business volume. Payment acceptance costs are considered standard operational overheads that are offset by increased footfall, higher average ticket values, and reduced cash-handling risks. Because the proposed UPI MDR is significantly lower than credit card fees and applies only above specific transaction thresholds, shopkeepers have no economic incentive to inflate retail shelf prices. Consumers will continue paying the exact listed price for goods and services.Will I need to pay a fee when scanning a QR code at a local vendor?No, scanning QR codes at local markets, street vendors, or small retail shops will remain completely free for consumers. The customer-facing side of a QR transaction involves zero fees, regardless of the purchase amount. The policy has been engineered to protect daily micro-purchases like tea stalls, and local transport from any cost burden. Consumers can continue scanning QR codes with total confidence that no extra charge will be deducted.How does UPI MDR compare to traditional Debit and Credit Card MDRs?UPI MDR is structured to be much lower than all traditional card-based transaction fees. Standard credit card MDRs typically range from 1.5% to 2.5% per transaction, while debi