‘I brought her up with such loving care’: Tagore writes about missing his daughter after marriage

From Azad Hind Radio to Gandhi: The forgotten Indian story of Surinamese composer Majoie Hajary

‘I try to write from within the body, acknowledging its innerness and mystery’: Poet Tishani Doshi

SC seeks Bengal response on Mahua Moitra’s plea seeking protection during visit to her constituency

As a Bengal seat goes to bye-polls, SIR deleted voters are stuck in limbo

‘Delhi was a warzone, Mumbai a concert’: Protests against CEC Gyanesh Kumar strike contrasting notes

Review: ‘Pooja Meri Jaan’ leads viewers on, like its accused heroine

Review: The heart beats extra hard and fast in ‘Dupahiya’ season 2

Futile for Indians to believe they are ‘Aryans’: How Gandhi inspired Du Bois to reimagine the world

The Election Commission has directed poll panels in states where the special intensive revision of electoral rolls has been completed to conduct an exercise for reinstating through Form 6 eligible voters who may have been wrongly removed from the voter lists.

The directive on Thursday came amid political parties, activist and civil society groups raising concerns about the functioning of the Election Commission and its handling of the SIR. They have also been demanding the removal of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar over the alleged irregularities in the conduct of elections.

However, after the drive was announced, former Chief Election Commissioner SY Quraishi said that Form 6 cannot be filled by deleted voters as it is only for new voters.

“All those who have been forced to fill it have committed a criminal offence carrying one year prison,” he said on social media. “EC officials who forced them are abetters to crime. This press note shows ECI’s abetment!”

The poll panel announced that booth-level officers will compare the electoral roll prepared after the revision of voter lists to those before the exercise and identify persons whose names “were there in the pre-SIR roll but who are not included” in the new rolls.

The Election Commission also directed the booth-level officers to undertake house-to-house survey of voters identified during the process, ascertain their current status and facilitate their enrolment through Form 6 wherever the person is found to be eligible.

The booth-level officers may cover at least 20 to 25 voters in a week “so as to complete this exercise within a period of about one month”, the poll panel said.

The officers will share the list of new enrolments with the booth-level agents of political parties, the Election Commission said.

The electoral registration officer will act “as deemed fit” in these cases.

At the end of the exercise, booth-wise lists would be shared by the electoral registration officer with the representatives of political parties, giving them a further opportunity for enrolment of any voters who have been left out.

The poll panel said that booth-level camps would also be organised to facilitate the submission of applications for such enrolments.

The Opposition has said that 13.8 crore voters had been removed from the voter lists of 31 states and Union Territories so far. This accounts for 14.6% of India’s 94.7 crore voters before the exercise began in 2025.

The Election Commission’s drive to reinstate eligible voters wrongly deleted from the voters lists will not be applicable to lakhs of persons in West Bengal whose appeals are pending in appellate tribunals as the cases are under adjudication, The Hindu quoted an unidentified poll panel official as saying.

The exercise to reinstate them would otherwise create parallel re-enrolment routes, one through the tribunals and the other by filing Form 6, the newspaper reported.

However, the booth-level officers in the state will check for eligible voters who may have been wrongly removed after the enumeration phase for being absent during the process, marked as dead or duplicate voters, or having shifted.

On September 26, the Election Commission had said that the old version of Form 6 will be used in periods when the SIR is not underway. It said that the declaration attached to Form 6 for the voter roll revision exercise had been upheld by the Supreme Court.

This came three days after The Indian Express reported on September 23 that two of the Election Commissioners, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi, had formally objected 14 times in 10 months to the poll panel’s decisions about the SIR, saying that some had been taken without their knowledge.

In one written objection, Sandhu was quoted as having stated that the poll panel had acted against the advice of both commissioners and described the action as “unauthorised and illegal”.

One of their objections pertained to the registration of new voters and changes to Form 6.

The new form asked applicants to state whether they or their parents or grandparents were part of the last special intensive revision of electoral rolls. Although the new decl