Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Neha Bora, National President of the All India Students' Association (AISA), is detained by police during a protest demanding the resignation of India's Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar on October 2, 2026 | Photo Credit: Reuters

The protest against Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Gyanesh Kumar is set to continue at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Saturday (October 3, 2026), AISA national president Neha Bora said. The announcement comes a day after hundreds of protesters, including political leaders and student activists, were detained during demonstrations in the capital.

Also read | Protests held across country demanding CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s ouster, hundreds detained

The protests on Gandhi Jayanti were organised by the Cockroach Janata Party (CJP), Opposition parties and student groups in Delhi and Mumbai. The protesters demanded Mr. Kumar’s resignation over alleged irregularities in the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls and concerns over the deletion of voters. In Mumbai, CJP leader Abhijeet Dipke said the group would hold another demonstration in Delhi on October 10 if Gyanesh Kumar did not resign.

Also Watch | SFI-DYFI protest in Delhi: Activists detained near Jantar Mantar

In Delhi, police detained hundreds of protesters as security forces prevented demonstrators from gathering at Jantar Mantar, where prohibitory orders were in place. AAP, Left parties, Congress youth and student wings, along with groups such as AISA, SFI, and NSUI, took part in the agitation. Police had deployed thousands of personnel and barricaded roads around central Delhi, while entry and exit gates at several Metro stations were shut as part of the security arrangements.

Former West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday (October 2) extended her support to the Cockroach Janta Party’s agitation, demanding the removal of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar.

Banerjee was speaking to reporters at the Kolkata airport after returning from Delhi, where she attended an INDIA bloc meeting.

“We are fully supporting the Cockroach (Janta) Party and all the young generation and students. And my humble request, please stop these atrocities,” she said.

CJP threatens Oct 10 Jantar Mantar protest demanding CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation, claiming peaceful action for free, fair elections amid police clashes.

SFI-DYFI protest near Jantar Mantar in Delhi demands CEC’s resignation over voter deletions and highlights youth unemployment concerns.

Nationwide protests demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation amid detentions, police crackdowns, and calls for electoral reforms across states.

Delhi / India / protest / Election Commission of India / Cockroach Janta Party

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.