Five Indian nationals aboard a Kuwait-flagged crude oil tanker were safely rescued after the vessel was struck by a projectile in the Strait of Hormuz, the Indian embassy in Oman said on Friday.The Indian nationals were aboard MT Kazimah III, which was hit while sailing through the strategic waterway. The embassy coordinated their rescue and said all five had been safely shifted ashore.“Earlier today, the Mission coordinated rescue of five Indian nationals on board the Kuwait-flagged tanker MT Kazimah III, struck by a projectile in the Strait of Hormuz. All 5 Indian nationals have been shifted ashore safely. We thank the Omani authorities for their continued support and assistance,” the embassy said in a post on X.The embassy thanked Omani authorities for their support during the rescue operation.MT Kazimah III is a crude oil tanker sailing under the Kuwaiti flag and was en route to the port of Lomé in Togo when it was struck.The incident comes as India steps up efforts to monitor the safety of its seafarers amid heightened security risks in the Persian Gulf and other major shipping routes.Earlier on Tuesday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said that more than 4,500 Indian seafarers were aboard commercial vessels operating in the region. Of these, 163 were on 12 active cargo ships, including six India-flagged vessels and six foreign-flagged vessels carrying cargo to India.“At this point, we have six India-flagged commercial vessels in the Persian Gulf. We also have six foreign-flagged vessels which are carrying cargo to India. So 12 ships are there. On these ships, we have around 163 Indian seafarers who are on board,” Jaiswal said during a media briefing.“Apart from this, we also have over 4,500 Indian seafarers who are on board various commercial vessels which are operating in the area,” he added.Jaiswal said the ministry of shipping was coordinating with Indian diplomatic missions and local stakeholders to track vessel movements and monitor the welfare of Indian seafarers.“Our ministry of shipping continues to monitor the movement of these ships and is looking at the well-being of all these seafarers, and as and when required, through our embassies and other stakeholders, they do the needful for their well-being and welfare,” he stated.“On our side, we remain committed to the safety and well-being of our seafaring community abroad,” Jaiswal said.The incident comes amid growing risks to commercial shipping across the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and Black Sea, where vessels have faced repeated attacks.External affairs minister S Jaishankar had raised concerns over attacks on commercial vessels and seafarers during his address to the 81st United Nations general assembly last week.“New challenges in the maritime domain have added to longstanding ones on land. There have been attacks on commercial shipping and seafarers in the Gulf and from the Red Sea to the Black Sea. Indian seafarers have lost their lives, as have others from other nations. This is completely unacceptable,” Jaishankar told the UN assembly.Jaishankar said India had joined Liberia and 23 partner nations in an international coalition aimed at mobilising global public opinion and defending commercial shipping routes.“We must ensure that the safety and security of shipping and seafarers is never compromised. Scrupulously observing international law is an integral element of that endeavour,” Jaishankar urged.He also called for immediate restraint and de-escalation in the Gulf to protect civilian crews and ensure the uninterrupted movement of energy supplies and global trade.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.