Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A Booth Level Officer checks documents during the Special Intensive Revision exercise at Jogbani, a municipal council area of Araria District in Bihar. File | Photo Credit: Shashi Shekhar Kashyap

Chauhan, who is disabled, says he has no idea why he was deleted from the list. He says he was at home at the time of the exercise and the booth-level officer (BLO) is also from his village. “The BLO knows that I live here and I am alive, but the BLO still marked me absent,” he says. Chauhan hopes that local volunteers and activists will be able to get his name on the list. “I live in a lot of pain because of my disability. I don’t know how to get my name back on the list. I had applied for a new card, but did not get it,” he says. Chauhan, who has never missed voting in an election, says he was unable to vote in the 2025 Bihar Assembly elections. He last voted in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.

Sah says he had submitted all the documents and has never voted anywhere except in his own constituency. “The cause of deletion is ‘already registered’. Why did they remove my name? I don’t understand,” he says. He has asked local officials for help, but no one has been able to give him an answer. Local activists are now helping him. Sah was unable to vote in the 2025 Bihar Assembly polls. He says the panchayat elections are scheduled for early 2027, but he does not know if his name will be restored. He says: “I have always voted, but I may not get to vote again. How is that okay?”

Sah’s father says his son was not present during the process to fill up the form. His family filled up the form, yet Sah’s name was struck off the rolls. “He is a government servant. He is serving the nation. And yet his vote has been taken away,” says Sah’s father. He adds that local activists are helping them fill up Form 6, so that they can be registered as new voters. Sah did not come back from duty to vote in the 2025 elections because his name was deleted, says his father. “Otherwise, he always tries to come back to exercise his democratic right to vote,” he says.

Devi says she had filled up all the forms that the BLO had provided. “I submitted the documents, did everything that was asked of me. Yet they deleted my name without any cause,” she says. Devi has asked the local officials why her name was deleted and what she should do to get it restored, but again, no one has answers. She is unsure of whether she will ever be able to get back on the electoral rolls. Since her name is absent, Devi says she could not vote in 2025. “For a poor person like me, exercising my franchise is the only power I have in this country. That power has been taken away from me,” she says.

Sah says he has only one voter card. “This feels like a targeted attack. My whole family was deleted under the same cause,” he says. Sah says only local political workers from the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation are helping the family by conducting surveys to find out whose names were wrongfully deleted. He hopes that they will be able to help him get his name back on the rolls. Sah also says he has never missed voting in any election. “But now I fear that I may not get to vote again. This is what they call ‘vote chori’. The most marginalised people — Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes — have been impacted by this,” he says.

Chauhan says he had two voter cards because officials filled in the wrong details. This, he says, is what has led to him being under the ‘already registered’ category. Now both the cards are invalid. “I have no idea how to get my name back on the rolls,” he says. “I have spoken to local gram panchayat leaders and officials. But I could not vote in 2025. I have two voter cards and not a single vote.” It is because of the officials’ mistake that his voter rights have been taken away, he argues. “How is that okay when the fault was not even mine? This is such a mess,” he says.

Riaz says there was a discrepancy in his father’s name and that, because he had provided his father’s name to establish his link to the 2002 rolls during the mapping and form-filling process, his own name was also struck off. He says their cases were sent to the tribunal and are still under adjudication. “We have not heard back from officials on getting our names restored,” he says. Since every family member’s name was struck off, he says the family is not getting their rations. “We have been to the officials at least six or seven times and filled up multiple forms. Now they are giving us some basic rations, but not the actual quantity we are entitled to. This feels like a targeted attack,” he says.

Wing Commander, Indian Air Force (Retd) Md Shamim Akhtar. | Photo Credit: Special arrangement

Akhtar says he was not put under any category. He says his name