Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

The Congress on Friday (October 2, 2026) appointed Aradhana Misra Mona president of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee.

Imran Masood, Lok Sabha member from Saharanpur, was appointed Working President, while Devinder Nishad and Alok Prasad have been appointed Senior Vice-Presidents of the party.

Ms. Mona replaced Ajay Rai, who led the party as the State head for over three years. Ms. Mona, a three-time MLA from Rampur Khas Assembly seat under Pratapgarh district, is the daughter of party’s senior leader and Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Pramod Tiwari. The appointment, months before the Assembly polls, is seen as an attempt by the party to forge a social coalition of Brahmin-Muslim-Dalit communities as Ms. Mona and Mr. Masood hail from Brahmin and Muslim communities respectively. Mr. Tiwari is considered a veteran leader of the grand-old-party and an influential political figure from the Brahmin community. He had won the Rampur Khas Assembly seat eight times.

“The party appreciates the contributions of the outgoing PCC President, Ajay Rai. The Congress President has also approved the proposal for the appointment of Chaudhary Virendra Singh as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Uttar Pradesh, with immediate effect,” reads the letter. Mr. Masood, the new working president, won the Saharanpur seat in 2024 by over 60,000 votes and is considered an influential Muslim leader from the region of Western Uttar Pradesh.

“The appointment is a clear signal that the party is eyeing to regain its old social coalition, the Brahmin-Muslim-Dalit alliance, which used to give it political dividend for decades. Both Ms. Misra and Mr. Masood are influential figures in their communities; a Scheduled Caste is the State-in charge of the party; Ms. Misra and his father share a cordial relationship with the Samajwadi Party. It will also help in seat-sharing and smooth functioning of the SP-Congress alliance,” said Asad Rizvi, Lucknow-based political analyst.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.