President repeats longstanding grievances and familiar attacks on ‘fake news’ in latest effort to restrict press freedom

Near the end of a chaotic news conference in the Oval Office on Friday, when a reporter tried to bring Donald Trump back to the subject of his move to ban CNN, Politico and MS Now from the White House, over unflattering coverage he referred to as “fake”, the president seemed to admit that what he is attempting to do is a violation of the freedom of the press enshrined in the US constitution.

“On the ban, what does that mean in practice?” the reporter asked. “Are you taking away their badges? Are you banning them from the pool? What does this actually mean?”

“When you say ‘the ban’, which ban?” Trump replied. “Do you know how many bans I’m involved in? I’ve got more bans going than any human being!”

“On the three news outlets, sir, what does that mean in practice?” the reporter clarified.

Looking genuinely confused, Trump said: “Wh- I still don’t know what she’s”, before turning for help to those around him.

NBC News correspondent Kelly O’Donnell then rephrased the question, asking: “What do you envision the bans would look like on the media outlets?” Trump said: “Oh, the ban on the free press, right?”

“Uh”, Trump said, “a very simple ban. I don’t want them in my office. I don’t want them here. I would say the ban would go as far as you can. And if they could straighten themselves out, you know, if they could straighten themselves out, I’d love it. Look, they’re very dishonest people. They write in a very dishonest way.”

He then went on to give an inaccurate account of the settlements he extracted from ABC News and CBS News after suing them over coverage he objected to, and, not for the first time, falsely claimed that the BBC documentary on the January 6 2021 Capitol riot he has sued the corporation over used technology to put words in his mouth that he never actually said. “They put horrible fighting words into my mouth,” Trump claimed, incorrectly. “BBC actually changed my language and they put words in my mouth.”

“We’ll be suing these people too,” he added, in apparent reference to the three outlets he banned from the White House on Friday.

Donald Trump on Friday signed legislation enabling sweeping sanctions on Russia aimed at pressing it into ending its war with Ukraine, and also giving him the power to impose additional tariffs on countries breaking the embargo.

The US president signed the Lindsey O Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act into law two days after it passed the House of Representatives in a bipartisan 262-159 vote, amid concerns the legislation gives him too much power.

The legislation imposes new sanctions on Russian political and military officials and foreign networks helping to supply Russia’s war machine and evade existing sanctions.

In addition, it targets Russia’s fleet of “shadow tankers”, which have allowed the country to continue to ship crude around the world despite existing sanctions on its energy exports.

But it also gives Trump wide leeway over its implementation, including which countries could face tariffs, and which tariff rates could be imposed. It also gives the president sweeping discretion over whether sanctions provisions can be waived against certain countries.

Controversially, it allows Trump to impose tariffs of up to 100% on buyers of Russian energy, including China, and on other countries that help Moscow to evade sanctions.

The bill’s broad provisions were criticized by many Democrats, who complained that it gave Trump excessive authority to resort to tariffs, which he has already imposed on multiple countries despite a US supreme court ruling prohibiting him from doing so under the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act.

Donald Trump’s threatened annexation of Greenland appears to be off the table, as the US president and the leaders of Denmark and Greenland announced on Friday that they expect to sign an Arctic security pact next week during the United Nations general assembly in New York City.

Trump cast the deal as a personal triumph, claiming on social media that the agreement “gives the United States permanent control over security, and all other needs, in Greenland, completely addressing ALL of our many U.S. concerns”.

“We will immediately begin the process of developing a large Military presence in the appropriate part of Greenland,” Trump added without mentioning that the US already has a presence on the island, and the right to expand bases, through Nato.

Statements from Denmark’s prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, and the leader of Greenland’s government, Jens-Frederik Nielsen, posted online late Friday, emphasized that the agreement would fall far short of Trump’s stated desire for “the acquisition of Greenland by the United States”. The island is a self-governing territory of the Kingdom of Denmark.

Frederiksen said that the agreement “recognizes the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Ki