United States President Donald Trump has announced that, effective immediately, CNN, MS NOW and Politico are banned from the White House.

On Friday, Trump posted on Truth Social his displeasure with the media outlets’ coverage of his administration.

“I am proud to announce that, effective immediately, I am banning Fake News CNN, MSNOW … and Politico … from the White House as a result of their constant ‘reporting’ FAKE NEWS!” Trump wrote.

“Media Outlets shouldn’t be able to constantly write or report FICTION and LIES when they’re covering the President of the United States, the Trump Administration, or the United States of America. Other Fake News Media Outlets to follow.”

Speaking to reporters later on Friday at the White House, Trump said the outlets “purposely write negative news”.

“You get so tired of reading and seeing fake news,” he told reporters in the Oval Office. “They purposely write negative news, and they do that because they want to try and diminish the Republicans and a Republican administration. And honestly, we’ve done a fantastic job.”

Asked why he was taking action now, Trump said it was because of the news organisations’ “cumulative” coverage.

A CNN spokesperson told Al Jazeera that the outlet stood by its reporting.

“We have a right under the US Constitution to do that reporting without hindrance or interference from the government. Should the ban, which President Trump threatened, go ahead, it would be an illegal assault on that fundamental and constitutionally-protected right,” the spokesperson said.

Press freedom groups have slammed the decision as an effort to penalise critical coverage.

“RSF is appalled by Trump’s threat to ban CNN, MSNOW News, and Politico from the White House over coverage he dislikes. Press access is not a privilege for journalists,” the press freedom watchdog Reporters Without Borders said in a social media post. “It’s a right to ensure the American people can be independently informed. RSF is exploring legal avenues to respond.”

Al Jazeera’s Alan Fisher reported from Washington that Trump’s ban will likely be challenged soon.

“The United States has the First Amendment [of its Constitution] that says the government cannot restrict access to this sort of thing,” he said.

“Other presidents have been angry at press coverage before. Lyndon B Johnson used to rail about it. Richard Nixon wondered whether or not he could ban certain people from the White House as well,” he said. “At every point, they were told it’s not a good look.”

While in office, Trump has repeatedly criticised the press for what he says is unfair coverage and has verbally targeted reporters for their reporting. Following media reports that the war on Iran was straining US munitions stockpiles, Trump berated news outlets that have reported on the issue as “treasonous scum”.

In a statement on Friday, the rights group Amnesty International also accused the Trump administration of attempting to stifle critical reporting.

“President Trump is at it again,” the group said in a social media post.

“The president wants to stifle scrutiny and evade accountability by punishing journalists and silencing media outlets for their coverage of his administration. Attacking freedom of the press and access to information is just one way this administration continues to crack away at the pillars of a free society. The Trump administration must end its attacks against the free press and free expression.”