US President Donald Trump on Friday announced an agreement with Denmark and Greenland that he said gives the United States permanent control over security and other security-related needs on the Arctic island.Trump said the agreement would give Washington the ability to act in Greenland to protect US and Greenlandic security, while also preventing US adversaries from establishing military bases or making sensitive investments on the island without American approval.“I am pleased to announce that the United States of America has entered into an Agreement with The Kingdom of Denmark, and Greenland, that gives the United States permanent control over security, and all other needs, in Greenland, completely addressing ALL of our many US concerns,” Trump said.“There will be no cost to the United States!” he added.Trump further said the agreement would ensure that Washington could act whenever necessary to protect Greenland and the US. “At my direction, we worked with representatives of Denmark and Greenland to guarantee that the United States will forever have the complete ability to do what is necessary in Greenland in order to secure and defend the security of Greenland, and the United States of America,” he said.Under the arrangement, Trump said, "from now on, no US adversary can ever have a base in Greenland, have a military presence in Greenland, or make sensitive investments in Greenland, without our express written approval,” Trump said.He also announced plans for a larger US military presence on the island. “We will immediately begin the process of developing a large Military presence in the appropriate part of Greenland, of which there are many,” Trump said, adding, “We will work with the people of Greenland in its development and construction.”Trump described the agreement as permanent and said it addressed a strategic issue that he argued previous US presidents had failed to resolve. “This is an ‘Infinite Life’ Agreement, there is no end!” he said.“For over 100 years, Presidents have known the strategic importance of Greenland, but none of them were able to do anything about it. I am proud to be the President that permanently and conclusively addressed this very important situation,” Trump added.Trump said the agreement would benefit the United States, Denmark, Greenland and US allies. “This solution is a great one for the United States of America, Denmark, Greenland, and all of our Allies,” he said.Greenland, Denmark issued a statement saying they expect to sign deal with the US on the sidelines of UN General Assembly. Denmark's prime minister described the deal as "good for NATO and Europe". Mette Frederiksen added that the deal "strengthens our common security in the Arctic and the North Atlantic area".Greenland, an autonomous territory within the Kingdom of Denmark, has been at the centre of a major diplomatic dispute since Trump repeatedly demanded that the United States take control of the strategically located Arctic island. Denmark and Greenland had rejected those demands in the past, while Trump has cited US national security and growing Russian and Chinese activity in the Arctic as reasons for his push.The United States already maintains a military installation at Pituffik Space Base in Greenland under its defence arrangements with Denmark. Trump’s latest announcement would significantly expand Washington’s stated military and security role on the island.Catch the latest World News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.