Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Former West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. | Photo Credit: PTI

The Trinamool Congress faction led by former West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee moved the Supreme Court on Friday (September 18, 2026) against a decision by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to freeze the party’s symbol.

The petition was filed hours after the top poll body on Friday (September 18, 2026) allotted new names and symbols to the two factions of the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee and Ritabrata Banerjee.

On Thursday (September 17, 2026), the ECI had issued an interim order barring the use of the party symbol and name in the upcoming Assembly byelections in Nandigram and Rejinagar in West Bengal.

The Mamata-led faction got the name 'Mamata All India Trinamool Congress' with ‘football player’ as its symbol, while the Ritabrata-led grouping was allotted the name 'Democratic Trinamool Congress' with the symbol of an 'envelope’.

The plea said the ECI did not comprehensively look into the party structure while considering rival claims made by the two camps.

The petition said the Election Commission had banked on the statements of rebel legislators who were facing disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution.

The Mamata Banerjee camp has also filed a separate petition highlighting the delay in the disqualification proceedings pending before the West Bengal Assembly Speaker against the 10 legislators from the rebel faction.

ALSO WATCH TMC name and symbol frozen: Mamata, Ritabrata factions get new identities

Bengal / All India Trinamool Congress / Election Commission of India

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.