Rush Hour: Mamata’s TMC gets new name and symbol, Umar Khalid documentary screening cancelled & more

Mumbai better than London, Gorakhpur better than Spain: How nationalism is deployed to hide reality

Congress candidate for Nandigram bye-poll arrested hours after Mamata extends support

In his new book, Sundar Sarukkai argues that sound is a starting point for Indian metaphysics

Fiction: When filmmaker Ritwik Ghatak and poet Binoy Majumdar were admitted to the same asylum

Delhi HC asks police how it could impose ‘blanket ban’ on anti-reservation protest at Jantar Mantar

Trinamool symbol order: EC gave repeated extensions to rebel faction, then said ‘time not adequate’

Preity Zinta, Pankaj Tripathi among new members of film certification board

Review: ‘Daayra’ loses the thread of its argument about extra-judicial killings

The Congress candidate for the Nandigram Assembly bye-elections in West Bengal was arrested on Friday in a 2007 murder case, said party MP KC Venugopal.

This came hours after former West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that her faction of the Trinamool Congress will support Milan Pradhan in the bye-elections scheduled for October 6.

Minutes before this, the group’s candidate, Sanchita Pradhan, had withdrawn her nomination. This came soon after photographs of her meeting West Bengal Chief Minister Suvendu Adhikari had been shared online.

Venugopal said in a social media post that Milan Pradhan’s arrest showed “democracy is on ventilator in BJP’s West Bengal”.

“This is the BJP’s latest effort to ensure ‘Opposition-Mukt Bharat’, successfully converting our great constitutional democracy into a banana republic,” said the MP.

He added that “these petty intimidation tactics by their cheap copycats are not going to scare” the Congress.

“We will stand tall against this misuse of power, and we will ensure the BJP’s defeat,” he said.

Democracy is on ventilator in BJP’s West Bengal. This is BJP’s latest effort to ensure “Opposition-Mukt Bharat”, successfully converting our great Constitutional democracy into a Banana Republic. Using a dormant 19-year old case from 2007 to arrest our candidate - minutes after… https://t.co/khRTAzRYZ6

During a press conference earlier in the day, Banerjee said that her faction had decided to support the Congress “in the greater interest of the country” and to strengthen the Opposition INDIA bloc.

“I want that Bharatiya Janata Party must go from India,” she said. “Our solidarity is with the INDIA bloc.”

The bye-poll was necessitated after Adhikari vacated the Nandigram seat.

The chief minister had won the Nandigram and Bhabanipur seats during the Assembly elections in May. He had defeated the TMC’s Pabitra Kar by more than 9,600 votes in Nandigram.

The Representation of People Act allows a candidate who has won two seats to retain only one.

While the rival TMC faction has nominated Ehteshamul Haque in Nandigram, the ruling BJP has fielded Hasirani Rath. The Left Front has fielded Communist Party of India’s Santigopal Giri.

The Mamata Banerjee-led faction also said that while it will contest the other Assembly bye-poll being held in Bengal’s Rejinagar constituency, it will not do so in Assam’s Nagaon Lok Sabha seat.

The announcement came hours after the Election Commission allotted new names and symbols to the two factions of the TMC.

The group led by Mamata Banerjee was assigned the name “Mamata All India Trinamool Congress” with the symbol “football player”. The Arup Roy faction of the party was allotted the name of “Democratic Trinamool Congress” with the envelope as its symbol.

This came a day after the poll panel had barred both TMC factions from using the party’s name and the “flowers and grass” symbol in the upcoming bye-polls in Nandigram and Rejinagar.

The factions had been asked to submit alternative names and symbols for the bye-elections by 11 am on Friday.

The TMC has been beset by internal divisions and rebellions after it lost the Assembly elections to the BJP in May. Nearly 60 out of the TMC’s 80 MLAs have rebelled against the party leadership to choose Ritabrata Banerjee as the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. The faction later appointed Arup Roy as its chairperson.

The group was also recognised by the Assembly speaker as the TMC’s legislature party in the House, and Ritabrata Banerjee has been recognised as the leader of the Opposition.

At the national level, 20 of the TMC’s 28 Lok Sabha MPs in June announced a merger with the Tripura-based Nationalist Citizens Party of India. The group is supporting the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in the Lower House of Parliament.

Ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament in July, the Lok Sabha speaker accepted the request of the rebel MPs to sit separately in the Lok Sabha. However, the group is yet to be recognised as the Nationalist Citizens Party of India in the House.

Mamata Banerjee’s faction of the TMC has initiated disqualification proceedings against 