US President Donald Trump has signed into law a sweeping sanctions package targeting Russia and Iran, giving his administration expanded powers to penalise countries that continue buying Russian oil and gas, including India.The “Lindsey O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026” authorises sanctions on Russian officials, banks and other entities, targets Russia’s energy trade and shadow fleet, and extends existing sanctions on Iran.In a statement, the White House said, "On Friday, September 18, 2026, the President signed into law: H.R. 5334, the “Lindsay O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026,” which authorizes and expands statutory sanctions, tariffs, and prohibitions on Russia and extends existing sanctions on Iran."The bill is named after Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who died in July and had been one of its most prominent supporters during more than a year of negotiations over the sanctions package.The legislation is particularly significant for India because it gives Trump the authority to impose tariffs of up to 100 per cent on imports from the five largest buyers of Russian oil or natural gas. India and China are among the major purchasers of Russian crude.The tariff provision is aimed at putting pressure on countries that continue to purchase Russian energy and thereby contribute to Moscow’s energy revenues. The legislation also targets vessels involved in Russia’s so-called shadow fleet, which has helped sustain its energy exports despite Western restrictions.The measure had cleared the Senate by an 86-11 vote in August before passing the House 262-159 earlier this week. The Trump administration had supported the legislation, including its tariff provisions, saying the additional powers could be used to push Russia towards a resolution of the war in Ukraine.India, Russia and China reacted after the US House passed the bill, with New Delhi warning that the legislation could have implications for India-US ties, as well as its energy security and trade interests. India said the issue had been discussed with US interlocutors at high levels in recent months and that it had conveyed the potential implications for the bilateral relationship and the international energy market. Russia said additional sanctions could complicate efforts to reach a peace settlement in Ukraine, while China rejected what it called US “long-arm jurisdiction”.The law also extends the Iran Sanctions Act for five years, maintaining US sanctions authorities aimed at preventing Iran from supporting terrorism or developing nuclear capabilities.Get the latest Business News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.