India on Friday dismissed allegations from Pakistan regarding an alleged collision between a Pakistani vessel and an Indian Navy warship in the Arabian Sea earlier this week.

On Wednesday, the Indian government summoned the Pakistani Charge d'Affaires (CDA) and lodged a strong protest over the "unacceptable conduct" by the Pakistan Navy vessel that led to the collision.

The Indian Charge d'Affaires in Islamabad has also been instructed to lodge a similar protest with Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reported ANI.

A collision took place between INS Kolkata and PNS Hunain in the Arabian Sea.

The incident took place on Tuesday night, reported PTI. It was reported that the Pakistani vessel closed in on the frontline Indian Navy warship that was on a routine surveillance mission in the north Arabian Sea.

The Pakistani foreign ministry alleged that the incident happened after what they called a "highly provocative and unacceptable action" by the Indian vessel in Pakistan's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).

"We have seen Pakistan's response to the protest we had lodged. It is the usual prevarication that we expected. We reject the allegations and insinuations contained therein," MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said during his media briefing, as per PTI.

Jaiswal asserted that the Indian ship INS Kolkata was on a routine deployment in the western Arabian Sea when Pakistani naval ship Hunain conducted itself in an "unacceptable and unprofessional manner", causing the collision at sea.

"The dangerous overtaking manoeuvre by PNS Hunain was in gross violation of Article 10 of the Agreement between India and Pakistan on Advance Notice on Military Exercises, Manoeuvres and Troops Movements of April 1991, which specifies that naval units at sea are not to be within three nautical miles of each other. In addition, the Pakistani ship also infringed the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea," Jaiswal said as per the news agency.

The Pakistan side has once again been "advised" about the need for all military units to observe due care and respect the provisions of the relevant agreements between the two countries in order to avoid any such incidents, he added.

According to Jaiswal, the incident did not cause any major damage to INS Kolkata. The vessel is currently at sea.

ANI reported that the Pakistan Navy ship was observed to be heading to the harbour after sustaining damage.

Sneha Biswas specialises in covering entertainment and pop culture, with a specialisation on Bollywood, Hollywood, OTT platforms, K-pop, K-dramas, and major developments in the US entertainment industry. She believes in telling stories that balance speed with substance, and in making entertainment journalism contextual, culturally aware, and reader-first rather than purely reactive.<br><br> With over six years of experience in digital media, Sneha currently serves as a Deputy Chief Content Producer at Live Mint. She has spent more than three and a half years with the HT Group and returned to the organisation in February 2025, joining Live Mint to uplift the entertainment section. Over the past year, she has been closely involved in entertainment coverage including breaking news, explainers, trend reporting, box office reports and analysis for the audience.<br><br> Sneha is Google News certified, having completed training focused on newsroom best practices, digital reporting, and SEO-driven content strategies. Her work reflects a strong understanding of audience behaviour, search trends, and the evolving consumption patterns of entertainment news across formats.<br><br> Prior to her current role, Sneha has worked across multiple content and editorial functions within digital newsrooms, building expertise in content planning, editing, and real-time coverage. Her professional interests lie at the intersection of entertainment, internet culture, and global pop trends.<br><br> Working for the National city team, Biswas closely follows global entertainment movements while maintaining a strong pulse on what is happening in India.

Stay updated with the latest Trending, India, World and US news.

Log in to our website to save your bookmarks. It'll just take a moment.

Oops! Looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image. Remove some to bookmark this image.