India on Friday rejected Pakistan’s allegations related to a collision between warships of the two countries and said the Pakistani vessel carried out a “dangerous” manoeuvre that violated a 1991 agreement requiring naval ships to maintain a distance of three nautical miles.

Following the collision in the Arabian Sea on September 15, India summoned Pakistan’s charge d’affaires Saad Warraich and lodged a strong protest over the incident. India contended that the Pakistani warship's unprofessional conduct violated the Agreement between India and Pakistan on Advance Notice on Military Exercises, Manoeuvres and Troops Movements.

Pakistan’s foreign ministry subsequently summoned Indian charge d’affaires Satyanjal Pandey and alleged that “aggressive” manoeuvres by the Indian warship resulted in the collision.

External affairs ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal dismissed Islamabad’s allegations made in response to New Delhi’s protest. “It is the usual prevarication that we expected. We reject the allegations and insinuations contained therein,” he told a regular media briefing.

Elaborating on the incident, Jaiswal said INS Kolkata was on a routine deployment in the western Arabian Sea when PNS Hunain “conducted itself in an unacceptable and unprofessional manner at sea that resulted in a collision”.

Also Read | 'Indian side has made clear...': MEA as Russia sanctions bill threatening 100% tariff clears US House

Jaiswal’s remarks identified INS Kolkata, a stealth guided missile destroyer, as the Indian warship involved in the incident for the first time.

PNS Hunain’s “dangerous overtaking manoeuvre” was in “gross violation of Article 10” of the 1991 agreement, which clearly specifies that naval units at sea are not to be within three nautical miles of each other, Jaiswal said.

“In addition, the Pakistani ship also infringed the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea,” he said.

“The Pakistan side has once again been advised about the need for all military units to observe due care and respect the provisions of the relevant agreements between the two sides in order to prevent any repeat of such incidents,” Jaiswal said.

He also noted that the incident did not cause any major damage to INS Kolkata, which remains at sea.

This was the first incident involving the militaries of the two countries since four days of hostilities in May 2025 triggered by India’s attacks on terror infrastructure on Pakistani soil in retaliation for the Pahalgam terror attack. It also reflected the lingering tensions between the two countries.

Indian officials had said PNS Hunain, a corvette, closed in at high speed on the Indian warship, which was on a routine surveillance mission in the north Arabian Sea, on the evening of September 15. The Pakistani vessel manoeuvred in an unprofessional and unsafe manner and this led to the collision, the officials said.

Pakistan’s foreign ministry alleged the Indian warship carried out a “highly provocative and unacceptable action” within the neighbouring country's exclusive economic zone (EEZ). The Indian vessel’s “aggressive manoeuvres in dangerously close proximity” to a Pakistani ship resulted in “contact between the two vessels”, it further alleged.

The last record of a collision between warships of India and Pakistan was in 2011, when INS Godavari was marginally damaged by PNS Babur during an anti-piracy patrol in the Gulf of Aden.

At the time, INS Godavari was approaching MV Suez, a merchant vessel hijacked by pirates to ascertain the safety of the crew. PNS Babur closed in on INS Godavari at high speed and carried out a manoeuvre that violated regulations on navigational safety, then defence minister AK Antony told Parliament.

India and Pakistan have not had high commissioners in each other’s capitals since 2019, when they downgraded diplomatic ties after the Indian government scrapped the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. After the Pahalgam terror attack in April 2025, India withdrew all three military attaches from its high commission in Islamabad and declared their Pakistani counterparts in New Delhi as “persona non grata” as part of a package of economic and diplomatic punitive measures.

Rezaul Hasan Laskar is Foreign Editor with the Hindustan Times, which he joined in 2015. He began as a journalist in his hometown of Shillong in northeast India and has worked in newspapers and wire services over the years. He moved to New Delhi in 1997 and initially focused on defence, national security, Jammu and Kashmir and the northeast, while also working of foreign policy and international relations. He has been part of the media delegation accompanying PMs on foreign visits and has reported from destinations ranging from Tibet to Ukraine. Between 2007 and 2013, he was the Press Trust of India correspondent in Pakistan, one of only two Indian journalists allowed to report from the country. He extensively covered Pakistan’s domestic politics and the life of the c