Russia believed to be behind hybrid activities in Germany and Europe, minister says

Dobrindt says specifically that “the means used to carry out the act” of sabotage in Leipzig - and he lists the drone’s configuration, various components used and explosives - “are known to us from other hybrid operations conducted by Russia and its war against Ukraine.”

He says “the attempted attack at Leipzig Airport on 4 August fits the established pattern of Russian hybrid operations in Europe.”

He concludes directly that “the German government therefore concludes that Russia is responsible for the hybrid attack in Leipzig on 4 August.”

The German government has blamed Russia for the drone attack on Leipzig airport last month, calling it “dangerous behaviour” and part of a systematic and concerted effort by Moscow to “cause great damage” through hybrid attacks in Europe (17:41).

German foreign and interior ministers said the attempted attack fitted a broader pattern of Russian behaviour across Europe (17:38), warning Germany is “not at war, but we are a daily target of hybrid warfare” (17:43).

Berlin ordered Russia to close its remaining consulate in Bonn and its Russian House of Science and Culture in Berlin as part of a package of retaliatory measures (17:46, 19:19).

The ministers also insisted Germany will continue its support for Ukraine (17:49).

In a coordinated show of support, Nato, EU and national leaders rallied behind Germany, joining in condemning Moscow’s hybrid attacks in Europe (17:50, 17:53, 18:00, 18:01, 18:09, 18:32, 18:37, 18:52, 18:54, 19:24, 19:25).

Russia’s foreign ministry said it would respond to “all anti-Russian actions” in due course (18:14).

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen will hold talks with Nato’s secretary general Mark Rutte on Wednesday to discuss this issue, among others (12:17), while EU ministers are set to hold talks in Ireland.

Several devices – believed to be in “double digits” – were found near a power substation in the eastern region of Brandenburg in what investigators believe was an attempt to cause a power outage in the region (14:38, 16:57, 17:15, 17:26).

At least 12 people were killed in Russian overnight attacks on Ukraine with “dozens” more injured (9:52, 10:34).

King Haakon VIII swore an oath of allegiance before Norway’s parliament in the first major stage in the passing of the crown since the death of his father after 35 years on the throne (12:39, 12:59, 13:01, 13:09, 13:13, 13:15, 13:20, 13:32).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Britain’s prime minister Andy Burnham also offered his support for Germany.

“The United Kingdom stands in full solidarity with Germany following Russia’s egregious and reckless attack in Leipzig.

Russian attempts to undermine our united resolve and our willingness to support Ukraine are futile and doomed to fail.

As I made clear in Kyiv last week, our commitment to supporting Ukraine from Russia’s illegal invasion is ironclad.

The strong measures taken by the German government show action against any attack of this nature will be met with a clear response.

We will not waver in our resolve to deter attacks on our freedom and security.”

Ukraine’s foreign minister Andrii Sybiha warned that “Russia’s hybrid attack at the Leipzig airport is part of its aggressive strategy toward Germany and the rest of Europe.”

“Acts of sabotage, disinformation, election meddling, espionage, attack on critical infrastructure and industrial facilities. These are not incidents, but part of Russia’s deliberate strategy. And they cannot go unpunished, because this will only fuel the aggressor’s appetite. We express solidarity with Germany and call for strong responses to Russia’s brazen actions, including additional sanctions.”

He added that “Europe needs a decisive strategy to counter Russian threats, especially ahead of next year’s elections throughout Europe.”

“Ukraine stands ready to share its vast experience and protect Euro-Atlantic stability. The reality is that Russia considers itself at war with Europe. Even if Europe does not see itself at war with Russia. Supporting Ukraine and increasing pressure on Russia are the best responses to Leipzig and other similar incidents.”

The Bonn consulate – which will now have to close by 18 September – is Russia’s last remaining consular post in Germany, aside from its embassy in Berlin.

It’s the latest escalation in diplomatic relations between the two countries.

In 2023, the German foreign ministry revoked the licences for four other Russian consulates in Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich and Leipzig, after Moscow moved to cap the number of German officials allowed in Russia and Germany had to shut its own consulates in Kaliningrad, Ekaterinburg, and Novosibirsk.

At the moment, Germany still has two diplomatic outposts in Russia: its main embassy in Moscow an