Five Australians have been confirmed safe in the devastating Nepal floods, meaning the number of unaccounted-for citizens has been revised from 43 missing on Tuesday morning to 38.

Of the five Australians confirmed safe, one was found in Nepal, one in Tibet, one in China and three outside the crisis-hit area.

These Australians had not spoken to families and next of kin since the disaster struck seven days ago.

Dfat has received nearly 800 calls in relation to the floods, with 18 Australian personnel having travelled to Nepal to join staff on the ground.

More humanitarian and disaster relief from Australia is due to arrive in Nepal this afternoon.

Canavan says young boys turning to social media after getting ‘sick and tired of the feminisation’ in schools

Ahead of Chanel Contos’s address to the National Press Club, Matt Canavan has blamed the “feminisation of our curriculum” for the proliferation of algorithms serving up “manosphere” content.

The Nationals leader said, as a “father of four boys” he believes society needs to have a “deep, hard look” at why kids are “attracted to this stuff online”.

Speaking to Channel Nine’s Today, he claimed boys are “sick and tired of getting lectures about how bad men are at school”.

double quotation markThey’re sick and tired of the feminisation of our curriculum and the lack of direction and leadership that they’re given. Maybe we should look at getting more male teachers in. That used to be an agenda. I don’t know what’s happened to that, but maybe we should have more male role models in schools.

I just know young boys often feel that they don’t get any kind of instruction, leadership. They’re not cherished there. They’re patronised.

The senator went on to say society needs to “marshal” young boys’ energy.

double quotation markThey’re full of testosterone. … I just worry some of the solutions here don’t really understand what goes in a young boy’s mind.

‘Great news’ that five Australians found safe in Nepal amid grave concerns for those still missing

The minister for the defence industry, Pat Conroy, said the revelation that five Australians have been confirmed safe in Nepal since yesterday morning is “great news”, but said the government still had grave concerns for the 38 others still unaccounted for.

double quotation markObviously having five citizens confirmed safe, which is great news for those Australians and their families, reduces the numbers of unaccounted Australians down to 38.

But we are very concerned for the safety of those 38 that have not had contact with their families or next to kin since the disaster struck. And we’re really focused on establishing their whereabouts and supporting their families in this very difficult time and supporting the people of Nepal in what is tragic circumstances.

Independent MP Allegra Spender said the Australia government has an “opportunity” to make social media algorithms safer for all Australians, not just young people.

The government is considering the change, saying social media was playing a “huge role” in the increase in sexual violence among teenagers and choking. Chanel Contos’s Teach Us Consent has campaigned for the tech giants’ algorithms to be opt-in only.

double quotation markWhat we see is that the algorithms as they are currently running, in certain circumstances, can serve content that has real damaging effects potentially across our community. And so I think creating an opt-in for people to make the default of social media safer and to give people really active choice in relation to social media makes a lot of sense.

The MP went on to say the under-16s social media ban was “not really working” and there was still a lot of work to do to see if the ban could be more effective:

double quotation markLet’s be honest that the challenges of social media don’t stop when you’re 16. You know, many adults struggle with … particularly the addictive nature of social media. And at the same time, we know that some of those issues that both Asio has highlighted and also the misogynistic content don’t just stop when you’re 16.

Five Australians have been confirmed safe in the devastating Nepal floods, meaning the number of unaccounted-for citizens has been revised from 43 missing on Tuesday morning to 38.

Of the five Australians confirmed safe, one was found in Nepal, one in Tibet, one in China and three outside the crisis-hit area.

These Australians had not spoken to families and next of kin since the disaster struck seven days ago.

Dfat has received nearly 800 calls in relation to the floods, with 18 Australian personnel having travelled to Nepal to join staff on the ground.

More humanitarian and disaster relief from Australia is due to arrive in Nepal this afternoon.

Drug testing will resume at New South Wales music festivals from October, but will not be rolled out into the wider community despite calls from peak health and harm reduction groups.

On Wednesday the state government announced NS