A week after a catastrophic flood tore through Nepal’s Himalayan valleys, thousands remain missing and rescue teams are still searching for survivors. CNA meets families waiting desperately for news and residents confronting the destruction of their communities.

DEVIGHAT, Nepal: From elevated ground in Bidur, the scale of destruction from Nepal’s deadly mountain flood becomes clear.

Below lies a scar of devastation snaking its way from the high mountains. The riverbanks through Nuwakot district - 60km south of Nepal’s border with China - have been stripped raw.

Houses that once stood here are gone without a trace. “It is like a mud apocalypse,” a local man remarks, walking through the mire.

Just over a week ago, this was a lush Himalayan foothill valley, a landscape of terraced fields, riverside towns and steep green hills. Now, through its core, dark water continues to race along the Trishuli River, sullied by rock and debris.

The flood began far upstream in Tibet on Aug 26, where a catastrophic collapse of rock and glacial ice sent water and debris surging through narrow valleys towards Nepal. The torrent entered the country through Rasuwa district before tearing south along the Bhote Koshi and Trishuli river systems.

Its force transformed a river corridor connecting mountain communities into the path of the disaster. Roads and bridges were swept away, hydropower projects were inundated and settlements downstream were buried.

One week on and the region is gripped by pain and loss, while authorities deal with a complex, multi-faceted response across largely impenetrable terrain.

Nepal's National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Authority said 987 bodies had been recovered and 3,916 people remained missing as of Tuesday (Sep 1) morning, with 11,814 rescued.

Still, this remains both a rescue and recovery operation. Rescuers have not abandoned hope of finding more survivors.

The greatest hope for rescue teams may lie beneath the mountains. More than 600 hydropower workers are feared trapped underground in tunnels highly concentrated north of Bidur.

The disaster struck one of the centres of Nepal's rapidly expanding hydropower industry. A chain of power stations and projects under construction runs along these steep river valleys. Several were damaged by the deluge.

Throughout recent days, rescuers have been blasting and digging their way into the tunnels, hoping workers survived the initial flood by sheltering inside underground powerhouses.

Engineers have reportedly been pumping air into these tunnels, and while a team had managed to gain entry into one, it withdrew after not finding anyone at the site.

At an army base in Bidur, which has become mission control for air operations into the disaster zone further north, crowds wait, clinging onto hope of news of missing relatives from across the wider disaster zone.

Beyond this town, road and bridge infrastructure has been completely wiped out.

Paarvati Shrestha, from Kathmandu, is missing her husband - a trader - who she has not heard from since the flood hit the border area where he was working. He had been travelling to China that morning, she believed, but is hopeful he may have escaped the floodwaters in time.

“A cousin from Bidur who had recognised my husband from his tattoos said he had managed to flee along with others to the jungle,” she said.

The 45-year-old said she has been told by the army to keep checking lists of names and photos to know whether he has been found, dead or alive.

“We have been waiting unable to eat or sleep for days and so we demand the rescue team try their best,” she said.

Mobile networks have been disrupted across parts of the disaster zone and access to some communities still remains difficult.

Shyam Kumar Pun is desperate for news of his lost brother, who was working as a machine operator at the border port of Rasuwagadhi.

Pun, 33, flew from Pokhara to Bidur and has been waiting for days for any news.

“If he was alive he would contact us on the phone,” he said. “We think he might have died but sometimes we wonder if he is out of phone network or his phone has died. We are somewhat hopeful that he is alive.”

As he speaks, the air buzzes with more helicopters dropping aid and bringing back survivors.

For those waiting for their loved ones, it’s a cycle of hope turned to anguish on repeat.

In the small nearby town of Devighat, a digger starts to work around one of the collapsed houses close to the river. A rescue team is on hand with sniffer dogs.

After some time, there is a breakthrough. But the outcome is yet another dead body: another victim in a rising death toll.

Locals tell CNA of seeing bodies on rooftops in the immediate aftermath of the flood.

Days on, the smell of death hangs heavily in the air here. Heavy lift drones move overhead carrying stretchers, and later more body bags, across terrain that vehicles can no longer easily traverse.

The life of this riverside community appears fr