The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Tuesday shared an update on Indian nationals and India's rescue and relief efforts in Nepal as of 7.30 pm on September 1.

According to the MEA, 163 Indian nationals have been rescued, with five new individuals added since the previous day. It also said 151 Indian nationals left China on Tuesday.

Also read | Photos, DNA matching: Indian embassy explains process to bring Nepal flood victims home

The MEA said the Indian tunnel rescue team established a foothold at hydropower tunnels in Chilime. The team faced several challenges, including extremely restricted access space, limitations on the use of specialised equipment due to the terrain and a marshy tunnel floor.

"Using innovative methods and improvised floats, the team was able to move deeper in the tunnel," the MEA said.

It added that the team would continue its efforts tomorrow to try and rescue any individuals who may be trapped inside the tunnel.

Also read | After Nepal floods, the Himalayan glaciers on India’s risk list — and the ones that aren’t

The MEA also said the forensic team from India expanded its activities in coordination with its counterparts from Nepal. The team undertook tasks including DNA examination and analysis.

"This will help expedite the processing of DNA samples in Nepal," the MEA said.

The number of people killed in the catastrophic floods in Nepal and China rose above 1,000 on Tuesday as rescue operations entered their seventh day.

The disaster was triggered last week by a glacial collapse that sent ice, mud, rocks and fast-moving water through a valley in Nepal. Entire settlements were swept away. Videos showed people trying to escape as huge walls of water and debris engulfed buildings, destroyed bridges and power lines, and carried away trees, boulders and vehicles.

By Tuesday evening, the death toll in Nepal had reached 1,050, while around 4,000 people were still missing. This includes nearly 600 foreigners from 39 countries, Bloomberg reported.

At least 11,993 people have been rescued so far in Nepal. Emergency crews are using helicopters and other aircraft to reach communities cut off after floods and landslides destroyed roads and bridges.

India stepped up humanitarian assistance to Nepal following flash floods in the Bhotekoshi River system near the Nepal-China border.

The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India has sent a consignment carrying 37.5 tonnes of Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) material, medicines and food packets to Nepal. With the latest consignment, India’s total emergency assistance to the flood-hit country has reached 47.5 tonnes.

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the second flight carrying relief material and medicines had departed. He added that India remained in close contact with the Nepalese authorities.

India had earlier sent 10 tonnes of HADR assistance and essential medicines to support Nepal’s flood response.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More