Rush Hour: Modi reiterates call for austerity, CJP cancels September 5 march and more

Two days after Bhagwat’s speech in New York, 90 US politicians pledge to not take RSS-linked funding

Bangladesh says it is holding ‘positive dialogue’ on joining Makkah defence pact

China, US and India should compensate Nepal for climate change, says Kathmandu days after floods

In Congress-ruled Karnataka, Bengali Muslim migrant workers come under citizenship scrutiny

‘Homes without Windows’: India’s caste history becomes a personal story in Chandu Maheria’s memoir

How Japan’s victory in the 1905 war against Russia strengthened India’s resolve for freedom

Kolkata: Protesters paint ‘Anandabazar Patrika’ office saffron after row over headline

India’s indigenous fruits are disappearing from diets and the landscape

Microfinance promised economic freedom but created more debt for the poor

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday once again appealed to Indians not to travel abroad and refrain from buying gold.

“Avoid organising destination weddings in foreign countries,” said Modi in a video posted from Kyrgyzstan. The prime minister is in the country for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit.

The multilateral forum comprises India, China, Russia, Pakistan and Iran, and five nations from the Eurasian region.

Modi had called for austerity in May as well, to withstand the economic headwinds created by the war in West Asia.

He had urged the public to avoid non-essential foreign travel and destination weddings abroad for a year, saying that conserving foreign exchange reserves was “an act of patriotism”.

The prime minister had also advised Indians to avoid non-essential gold purchases to reduce pressure on foreign exchange outflows.

He repeated the appeal on Tuesday while congratulating the public on India’s gross domestic product in the April-June quarter growing at 7.8%. This surpassed the 7% forecast by the Reserve Bank of India for the quarter.

Modi said that India was “progressing rapidly” despite global uncertainty, wars and disruptions in supply chains.

7.8% growth. Strong numbers. Even stronger confidence. pic.twitter.com/ZVPpnAXrVU

“On the other hand, within India too, people drowned in an atmosphere of despair are engaged in spreading lies,” he stated. “Overcoming all these challenges, the country has achieved 7.8% growth.”

His remarks came after the Congress claimed that the GDP growth rate presents a “greatly distorted picture” of India’s economy.

Party leader Jairam Ramesh said that the numbers do not convey the “decidedly depressed private investment sentiment in the economy – both domestic and foreign”.

The prime minister’s celebration was “premature”, Ramesh added, while referring to Modi describing the country’s growth as a “herculean feat”.

Congress MP Pawan Khera had said that GDP measures only the national output, and not jobs, wages or the opportunities available to the citizens.

He asked whether India had truly “bloomed” if “rampant unemployment, leaked exam papers, and a crumbling education system define the ground reality”.

Modi’s austerity appeals are a misplaced solution for India’s economic woes