NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday released a fresh video message after the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) amendment Bill, 2026 was passed by Parliament, calling it a major step towards building a more reliable examination system and cracking down on paper leak mafias.In a video posted on social media, PM Modi said, "Friends, we have been taking one step after another to build a trustworthy examination system. Whether it is setting up special task forces, establishing fast-track courts, or incorporating suggestions from the states, we have been working continuously in this direction."He said the issue of paper leaks had troubled governments across the country for decades."Every state government and every central government has faced the problem of paper leaks over the past several decades. Because of this, the future of our children has also been put at risk," he said.The Prime Minister said the government recognised the need for reforms in the education system and greater use of technology."Keeping all this in mind, reforms in the education system across the country, both at the Centre and in the states, have become essential. There is a need for the extensive use of technology. At the same time, no paper leak mafia, no gang involved in leaking question papers, and no group playing with the future of the country's children will be spared. There is also a need for stringent laws."Referring to the legislation passed by Parliament, PM Modi said the government had fulfilled its promise."We had introduced this Bill in Parliament and, as I had promised you, over the past two days, members of both Houses discussed it in detail. Today, both Houses have passed this Bill containing stringent legal provisions."Calling the passage of the Bill an important milestone, he added, "Now, an important step has been completed in the direction of creating a trustworthy examination system. Our work will continue. We will not allow such a situation to continue for long."Concluding his message, the PM Modi urged citizens to work together towards the goal of a developed India."With this confidence, let us all move forward shoulder to shoulder to realise the dream of a developed India. Thank you very much."Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.