Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Supporters of the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) during a protest march demanding the resignation of Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan over alleged NEET exam irregularities, near Parliament House, in New Delhi. File | Photo Credit: Shiv Kumar Pushpakar

Days after the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) called off its agitation at Jantar Mantar, protesters continued to be summoned by the Delhi Police until Thursday (July 30, 2026) afternoon to explain their presence at the protest site, according to Rishav Ranjan, a member of the Congress party’s legal cell who has been involved in providing legal aid.

Later in the day, the Delhi government issued an order withdrawing all cases against the protesters, in line with an assurance given by Union Ministers J.P. Nadda and Jitendra Singh during a meeting with a two-member CJP delegation on July 25.

Mr. Ranjan said that a helpline launched by the party has so far received 300 calls, including 50 calls by young girls and women who were being issued rape and death threats for participating in the protests.

He said the Supreme Court’s July 28 order directing the immediate release of all minors arrested in connection with the demonstrations and restraining the police from taking coercive action against protesting students without criminal antecedents was not being implemented.

“The withdrawal of FIRs is effective only in Bihar, especially not in Delhi. The threats by the State not to join the protest and not to do politics around the students’ issue continue. Today, three individuals from Haryana were brought to the Parliament Street police station for questioning without any notice. One of them was blindfolded and brought here; when we intervened, he was let off near the Karnal by-pass around 3.30 pm by the police,” Mr. Ranjan said.

He added that he was working in tandem with the CJP legal team, and other independent lawyers were also helping the detained persons.

He said despite the assurance by the Central government, juveniles were released from Bhagalpur in Bihar and Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday (July 29, 2026) night, and there were several others who were yet to be released.

As the interim Supreme Court order permitted the authorities to proceed with the investigation of the existing FIRs, the police in some States are acting arbitrarily under its guise, he said.

“Many girls are getting calls from right-wing influencers asking why they joined the protest. Their names are part of a list, which is being circulated by these handles. They are being harassed and threatened. There is clear evidence online. This needs serious action by the State,” he said, adding that the Supreme Court will be informed about such incidents.

A delegation also plans to meet the Delhi Police Commissioner.

“We need to seriously lodge FIRs to help these women. They need urgent guidance and protection. The State has to take an action and make an example out of them,” he added.

He said there were apprehensions that the detentions and instances of people being summoned for questioning at police stations were based on images captured by Facial Recognition System (FRS) cameras installed at the protest site.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.