‘The flood took everything I have’: survivors grieve for relatives and homes swept away in Nepal

Chinese rescuers find ‘nothing but ruins’ at border crossing as Nepal seeks help to ID and store the dead

The Nepalese government has requested “specific and specialised assistance” from neighbouring countries to aid search and rescue efforts.

This includes assistance with opening tunnels where people are trapped, technologies that can help locate people alive in affected areas, rapid forensic and DNA analysis, and mortuary facilities for the proper storage of bodies, Nepal’s ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement.

It added: “An 11-member specialised technical reconnaissance team for tunnel rescue from India has been mobilised and a tunnel rescue team from China is expected to arrive very soon.”

We’re wrapping up the Nepal-Tibet flash flood for the time being. Here are the latest developments:

Nearly 3,000 people are missing. Nepal’s disaster agency on Saturday said 2,426 people were missing on its side of the border, while China’s Xinhua news agency reports the total number of missing in Tibet is now 554. This includes at least 777 foreigners and 933 workers on hydropower projects on the river where the torrent smashed down.

The death toll in Nepal has now risen to 675, the country’s disaster authority has said. China’s Xinhua news agency earlier today reported seven people confirmed dead in Tibet– where information is under the strict control of Chinese authorities – that brings the death toll for the disaster to 682.

More than 3,700 people have been rescued in Nepal so far but at least 93,000 people are estimated to have been affected by the disaster, according to the Red Cross.

Nepal rescuers send air pipe into tunnel with trapped workers. Nepali army rescuers sent air pipes into tunnels, in the hopes of reaching missing hydropower workers, AFP reported. Rescue efforts are focused on the Trishuli 3A and 3B sites.

Nepal’s government has appealed for foreign support to aid rescue efforts. This includes financial aid and freezers to preserve bodies. Nepal’s foreign minister, Shisir Khanal, says reconstruction efforts could run into “billions of dollars”, AFP reports. He added: “We will do loss and damage research and then we plan, but I am reaching out to our international community for support.”

Amid the devastating catastrophe in Nepal, Nepali Americans are expressing growing frustration with the US government’s response to the crisis in Nepal.

Tsomo Dasel, 40, is the owner of Himalayan Yak, New York’s first Nepali restaurant. Back home in Nepal, her husband’s family is safe – but it’s not just her loved ones that she’s worried about. Dasel said the priority in the aftermath should be to exhaust all available resources to find the missing. Each passing moment is crucial to the search, which she fears won’t match the enormity of the disaster.

She voiced her distaste with the Trump administration’s humanitarian response, after the state department pledged an initial $500,000 in emergency aid for Nepal – an amount she called an “insult” to address a catastrophe with a death toll that’s in the hundreds, and still rising.

“It’s a joke – if you don’t want to do anything, then don’t do it,” Dasel said.

For Nepali and Tibetan communities thousands of miles away in New York and across the US, the catastrophe is has sharpened the focus on an urgent injustice: who is being forced to bear the consequences of a warming planet, and why should communities that contributed so little to the climate crisis bear some of its greatest costs?

The disaster has also arrived at a particularly fraught political moment, as the US has retreated from international climate commitments while dramatically reducing foreign aid and humanitarian assistance, leaving vulnerable countries with fewer resources to prepare for and recover from disasters.

Dasel said that she is ready to help out in any way she can, in a time when “The world needs to pay attention.”

“We don’t know how we can help them … so we’re sitting down together, like, OK, what are the resources? … Maybe their emergency needs … anything that, you know, they may not have, and we can provide them.”

When the time comes, she’ll be ready: “Whatever the team needs.”

We have satellite images showing the extent of destruction before and after the floods in Nepal.

Biraj Bhakta Shrestha, the Nepalese energy minister, says a hole has successfully been drilled into a tunnel used to carry cables, BBC reports.

Initial inspection has revealed there is no debris inside, he says, but no communication has been established with anyone inside.

He shared that air is being pumped in; if the weather allows, the rescue team will work through the night to make a hole large enough to fit a person.

There is a risk that the rescue operations may be affected by and even suspended due to rain.

We have images of relatives gathered outside of Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospi