Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat speaks at 'One World, One Humanity' faith leaders' conference in New York, USA, Saturday, Aug. 29, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday (August 29, 2026) said that Hindutva does not envisage a Bharat (name he uses for India) without Muslims, asserting that a person who believes Muslims should have no place in the country would cease to be a Hindu.

Also Read | U.S. religious freedom panel urges sanctions on RSS members over Mohan Bhagwat visit

Addressing an event in New York City where he spoke with leaders from different communities and religions, Mr. Bhagwat said that Muslims, during a dialogue with him, had questioned him about the RSS’s vision of a “Hindu Rashtra” and whether Muslims would be driven out of the country. “I said, no, that is not Hindutva. If any Hindu thinks that there should be no Muslims in Bharat, he will not remain Hindu,” he said.

Mr. Bhagwat stressed that while people may follow different religions, humanity remains one. “We live in a society where religions may be different, but humanity is one,” he said, adding that india’s tradition had been to provide shelter to people irrespective of their religious identity.

He also cited the RSS’s service activities to underline his claim that the organisation does not discriminate on the basis of religion. According to him, around 1.3 lakh service projects are being run by RSS volunteers with the help of society.

Recalling an incident in Dadri, Haryana, where two aircraft from Muslim-majority countries collided, Mr. Bhagwat said RSS volunteers were among the first to reach the site. As all passengers had died, the volunteers helped arrange funerals and assisted relatives in identifying the victims, he said.

“We don’t have the thought that they are Muslims,” Mr. Bhagwat said, referring to the RSS volunteers’ approach to relief and service.

He said the organisation’s approach was rooted in the belief that “we” and “ours” should replace the narrow focus on “me” and “mine”. “Where there is ‘me’ and ‘mine,’ there is no solution. ‘We’ and ‘ours’ is the solution,” he said.

Mr. Bhagwat also referred to the RSS’s dialogue with members of minority communities, saying that the organisation had begun engaging more extensively with Muslims and Christians in Bharat after 2018. “Dialogue is the first step, and service is another step,” he said.

Invoking the example of Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, the RSS chief said the spiritual teacher had practised different religious traditions, including Islam and Christianity. He quoted him as saying: “As many ways, as many thoughts. All lead to one way.”

Mr. Bhagwat said the idea of the unity of humanity was embedded in India’s traditional thought as well as in the Constitution. He argued that social change could not be achieved through politics alone and called for local initiatives based on selfless service, dialogue and unity.

‘Things cannot be achieved through politics alone. Sorry to say, but the fact is that politics has now become a game of self-interest. Our experience in India is that we have to start with society, and we have started it,’ he said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.