France was hit by a nationwide wave of strikes and student protests, with civil servants walking off the job and high school students blocking hundreds of schools as anger over budget cuts, overcrowded classrooms and teacher shortages spread across the country.The mobilisation came two days before Prime Minister Sébastien Lecornu's government is due to present its draft 2027 budget, which includes a planned €54 billion savings drive. The protests have added to pressure on the government as it tries to rein in France's finances ahead of next year's presidential election.The unrest was particularly visible at schools, where students piled up bins and barriers to prevent access. The education ministry said around 400 schools were affected by protests or disruptions on Tuesday, out of roughly 3,700 nationwide. More than 440 people, most of them minors, were detained, according to interior minister Laurent Nuñez.​​At least 10 teachers, several students and 48 law enforcement officers were also injured during Tuesday's unrest, according to officials.Students take protests beyond ParisThe school protests began in the Paris region last week but have since spread to cities including Lille, Lyon, Nantes, Marseille, Bordeaux and Rennes.Students have been protesting over a shortage of teachers, overcrowded classrooms, poor school conditions and demanding timetables. At some schools, however, the demonstrations escalated into clashes with police.In Lille, rubbish bins were set on fire outside the Lycée César Baggio, while police used tear gas and batons after protesters threw objects. Similar confrontations were reported elsewhere, although many blockades remained peaceful.At the Lycée Arago in Paris, students blocked the entrance with bins while a placard reading "Macron explosion" was displayed. Outside the Hélène-Boucher school, protesters put up a banner saying "Fewer cops, More money"."We want fewer police because we think there is a huge amount of police repression, both against high school student movements and social movements more generally," final-year student Mael Breton told Reuters.Students have cited teacher shortages, overcrowded classrooms and poor school conditions as key grievances. “There are 34 of us in each class, and it’s just not feasible. The teachers are overworked,” a 16-year-old student told AFP, saying the education system was “completely broken.”The government's response has been mixed. Lecornu condemned violence around schools but acknowledged that students' concerns over the education system needed to be heard and addressed. Education minister Édouard Geffray said students had a right to protest but condemned violence as "indefensible".Civil servants join nationwide strikeThe student mobilisation coincided with a broader strike by public-sector workers, including teachers, healthcare workers and firefighters.Unions organised more than 170 rallies across France to oppose the government's budget plans and its proposed freeze on state employees' base salaries in 2027. The CGT union has argued that repeated pay freezes have eroded workers' purchasing power.Firefighters were among those taking part after a summer of major wildfires exposed concerns over resources. The education ministry said just over 11% of teachers and other school staff were on strike, while participation among other civil servants was below 10%.Transport disruption was limited in the morning, although the aviation regulator warned of possible disruption at some airports.CGT leader Sophie Binet said the government had 48 hours to reverse the planned spending cuts before the union considers further strike action."This summer, who was on the front line? It wasn't the billionaires, the big bosses or the shareholders. It was civil servants and working people. And how are they being thanked? By cutting their pay? The anger is enormous," she told BFMTV.Why the budget is at the centre of the angerLecornu's government is trying to find savings as France grapples with a mounting debt burden. The proposed €54 billion savings package is aimed at bringing the public deficit down, while the government has also warned that public debt could reach 121.7% of GDP in 2027.France's public debt reached €3.595 trillion at the end of June, or around 119% of GDP, according to national statistics agency Insee.The cost of servicing that debt is also rising. France is expected to spend around €79 billion on interest payments this year, with the government projecting the figure could rise to €91 billion in 2027.The government is therefore trying to cut spending while unions resist pay restraint and students demand more teachers and resources for schools.You use AI every day. Now get your AI Quotient. Take the AIQ test.