More than 25,000 people have been deported to 29 countries under ⁠the policy implemented last year, according to a tally by human rights groups

The supreme court has allowed the Trump administration to resume deporting people to countries other than their own without offering them the chance to show the harms they may face, bolstering a tool Donald Trump has used for rapid expulsions as part of ⁠his immigration crackdown.

The justices granted the DOJ’s request to halt ​Boston-based US district judge Brian Murphy’s ruling that the Department of Homeland Security’s policy to remove migrants to so-called third countries is unlawful, while the administration appeals the matter to the supreme court. They also agreed to hear arguments in the dispute in December, with a ⁠formal ruling on policy to follow.

Federal attorneys said the lower-court decision forced the cancellation of a deportation flight carrying about 70 people bound for three countries.

The justices previously allowed the deportation flights, a core Trump administration policy, to temporarily continue when the case came before them last year. In another win for the administration, the supreme court subsequently lifted limits the judge had imposed to protect a group of men from being sent to South Sudan.

More than 25,000 people have been deported to 29 countries under ⁠the policy implemented last year, according to a tally by human rights groups, with the vast majority going to Mexico.

The administration has also carried out third-country deportations to politically unstable South Sudan, which the US state department urges Americans to avoid due ​to the risks of crime, kidnapping and armed conflict, as well as Uganda, Equatorial Guinea, ‌Liberia, the Central African Republic, and other nations.

Senator Chris Van Hollen has released a statement in response to the Senate’s vote failing to pass his resolution requiring the state department report on increasing violence in the West Bank:

“The U.S. Government – including this Administration – has said time and again that our number one priority abroad is ensuring the safety and security of American citizens. And yet, as we’ve seen violence rise in the West Bank, nine American citizens have been killed in recent years, and they have received no justice and no accountability. Their families – and the American people – deserve answers on their deaths. But today Republicans denied them that. Meanwhile, the Palestinian people have also borne the toll of this violence day in and day out. They too deserve justice and accountability. But again, Republicans blocked that today. While I was pleased that so many of my Democratic colleagues joined this effort, it’s clear the United States must do more. It is our responsibility to ensure recipients of U.S. taxpayer dollars act in line with our laws and our values – this resolution was an opportunity to shed light on a reality that flies in the face of that principle.”

In an executive order today, Donald Trump called for “artificial intelligence” to be renamed “super intelligence”.

“The terminology used by the Federal Government should reflect the transformative capabilities of these technologies and the limitless opportunities they create for the American people,” the order reads. “Accordingly, the term ‘Super Intelligence’ more appropriately captures the promise, potential, and rapidly advancing capabilities of these technologies.”

The order directs “executive departments and agencies to use the term in “official correspondence, public communications, websites, reports, policy documents, and other non-statutory documents within the executive branch.”

The US Senate on Tuesday evening rejected along mostly party lines a Democratic resolution that would have forced the state department to report to Congress on violence in the occupied West Bank, including the killings of nine American citizens by Israeli settlers or security forces over the last few years.

The resolution, led by the Maryland Democrat Chris Van Hollen, would have given the state department 30 days to report to Congress on those deaths and on wider human rights conditions in the territory, including Israel’s detention of Palestinian children.

The resolution failed to advance by a vote of 47 to 51. Pennsylvania senator John Fetterman, a Democrat, joined Republicans in voting against the resolution, while Kentucky Republican Rand Paul voted in favor.

TSA officers will no longer be allowed to sit at airport checkpoints.

The Transportation Security Administration confirmed the decision in a statement: This welcome change reinforces both our security posture and ​our commitment to hospitality by having ‌these officers on ‌their feet and alert. All officers must meet fitness for duty requirements to ‌be capable of performing their vital national security function.“

The TSA workers’ union, the ⁠American Federation ​of Government Employees TSA Council 100, criticzed the move, saying it showed “disr