US supreme court allows Trump officials to resume deportations to third countries

The supreme court has allowed the Trump administration to resume deporting people to countries other than their own without offering them the chance to show the harms they may face, bolstering a tool Donald Trump has used for rapid expulsions as part of ⁠his immigration crackdown.

The justices granted the DOJ’s request to halt ​Boston-based US district judge Brian Murphy’s ruling that the Department of Homeland Security’s policy to remove migrants to so-called third countries is unlawful, while the administration appeals the matter to the supreme court. They also agreed to hear arguments in the dispute in December, with a ⁠formal ruling on policy to follow.

Federal attorneys said the lower-court decision forced the cancellation of a deportation flight carrying about 70 people bound for three countries.

The justices previously allowed the deportation flights, a core Trump administration policy, to temporarily continue when the case came before them last year. In another win for the administration, the supreme court subsequently lifted limits the judge had imposed to protect a group of men from being sent to South Sudan.

More than 25,000 people have been deported to 29 countries under ⁠the policy implemented last year, according to a tally by human rights groups, with the vast majority going to Mexico.

The administration has also carried out third-country deportations to politically unstable South Sudan, which the US state department urges Americans to avoid due ​to the risks of crime, kidnapping and armed conflict, as well as Uganda, Equatorial Guinea, ‌Liberia, the Central African Republic, and other nations.

This concludes our live coverage of the second Trump administration for the day. Here are the latest developments:

Donald Trump announced that the heads of the largest US tech and AI companies had signed on to a “morally binding” agreement to put controls on artificial intelligence. Trump did not give further details on the controls, but he suggested that the deal would allow the companies to largely “self-police” their products and technology. Later, Trump signed an executive order calling for “artificial intelligence” to be renamed “super intelligence”.

Jack Smith faced Senate lawmakers on the judiciary committee for a contentious hearing that saw a number of Republicans accuse the former special prosecutor of perjury, and conducting a political witch-hunt against Trump when he secured two indictments against the president that were later dismissed when he took office.

A Republican senator blocked a bipartisan bill that would have prevented Donald Trump from demolishing the Kennedy Center without the approval of Congress. Mike Lee, of Utah, objected when the Oregon Democrat Jeff Merkley asked the Senate to pass the Protecting Presidential Memorials Act by unanimous consent.

The supreme court allowed the Trump administration to resume deporting people to countries other than their own without offering them the chance to show the harms they may face, bolstering a tool Trump has used for rapid expulsions as part of ⁠his immigration crackdown.

The US Senate rejected along mostly party lines a Democratic resolution that would have forced the state department to report to Congress on violence in the occupied West Bank, including the killings of nine American citizens by Israeli settlers or security forces over the last few years.

JD Vance and health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. spoke at the conclusion of the Make America Healthy Again summit in Washington. Several reporters were denied entry to the event.

Federal prosecutors have charged a Venezuelan delivery driver shot by ICE agents in Texas this month with one count of assaulting, resisting and impeding a federal officer. Wilber Rafael Garcés Pérez, 28, was shot by federal immigration officers after a traffic stop in Texas on 20 September. The charge echoes similar claims federal immigration officers have made about immigrants and anti-ICE protesters, including Minnesota mother Renee Good, “weaponizing their vehicles”

A judge has ended the longest-running federal oversight of a police department in history, concluding that monitoring of the Oakland Police Department may end 23 years after it began.

The monitoring began in 2003, after a rookie officer came forward three years earlier to report abuse of power by a group of officers called the Oakland “Riders.” The four officers were charged with using excessive force, falsifying police reports, assaulting people and other crimes in the predominantly Black neigborhood of west Oakland.

“This is the first time in 23 years that OPD has achieved each of the 51 tasks in the (settlement agreement.) No one can say, ‘mission accomplished.’ But I do congratulate the city and OPD for getting this far,” San Francisco judge William Orrick said during a hearing in May.

On Tuesday, Orrick said: “I’m particularly gratef