More than 25,000 people have been deported to 29 countries under ⁠the policy implemented last year, according to a tally by human rights groups

The supreme court has allowed the Trump administration to resume deporting people to countries other than their own without offering them the chance to show the harms they may face, bolstering a tool Donald Trump has used for rapid expulsions as part of ⁠his immigration crackdown.

The justices granted the DOJ’s request to halt ​Boston-based US district judge Brian Murphy’s ruling that the Department of Homeland Security’s policy to remove migrants to so-called third countries is unlawful, while the administration appeals the matter to the supreme court. They also agreed to hear arguments in the dispute in December, with a ⁠formal ruling on policy to follow.

Federal attorneys said the lower-court decision forced the cancellation of a deportation flight carrying about 70 people bound for three countries.

The justices previously allowed the deportation flights, a core Trump administration policy, to temporarily continue when the case came before them last year. In another win for the administration, the supreme court subsequently lifted limits the judge had imposed to protect a group of men from being sent to South Sudan.

More than 25,000 people have been deported to 29 countries under ⁠the policy implemented last year, according to a tally by human rights groups, with the vast majority going to Mexico.

The administration has also carried out third-country deportations to politically unstable South Sudan, which the US state department urges Americans to avoid due ​to the risks of crime, kidnapping and armed conflict, as well as Uganda, Equatorial Guinea, ‌Liberia, the Central African Republic, and other nations.

Legal immigration from 45 Muslim-majority countries fell 96% since 2024, according to a new analysis from the Cato Institute, a libertarian thinktank. The White House’s “Rapid Response” account shared the analysis in a social media post today.

“During his campaign in 2016, President Trump repeatedly proposed an outright ban on Muslims entering the United States. He then claimed that this policy idea morphed into the travel ban to avoid potential constitutional problems,” the report states. “During his 2024 campaign, he said he would bring back an even stricter ban than the one in his first term. He has succeeded.”

Citing state department data, the Cato report states that, “Monthly immigrant visa issuances and permanent lawful refugee admissions fell from 21,096 in December 2024 to 808 in February 2026.”

Last week, CNN reported that the Trump administration plans to accept 17,500 refugees in fiscal year 2027, the vast majority of them white South Africans, citing a copy of the report to Congress. Earlier this year, the administration raised the cap for South African refugees, setting a limit of 17,500 refugees from the country.

“The United States anticipates that Afrikaners from South Africa will fully assimilate into the United States in a manner that preserves taxpayer resources for U.S. citizens and does not anticipate other countries resettling Afrikaners,” the report states.

Donald Trump has agreed to stop fighting in court the disbursement of E Jean Carroll’s $5m verdict in her 2023 sexual abuse and defamation civil trial against him, a procedural development as these funds were already distributed to her.

While the decision does not change anything about Carroll’s receipt of the payout, its revelation effectively means that Trump will no longer oppose the monetary outcome he had long fought.

This decision was revealed Tuesday by the United States court of appeals for the second circuit.

Responding to Donald Trump’s announcement that AI CEOs had signed a “morally binding” voluntary agreement today, California representative Ro Khanna said “We are a nation of laws, not pinky promises.”

In a social media post, the California Democrat added, “Trump let Xi walk away without a binding treaty on AI. And now he’s doing free PR for AI CEOs,” referring to the meetings Trump has held with Chinese president Xi Jinping and tech company executives this week.

Donald Trump will begin “a 32-day tour” ahead of the midterm elections. The president said he has been asked to speak at campaign events across the country, including at stops in Texas and Ohio this week.

“Just so you understand, they all want me to go. ⁠I’m one person. They all want me to go campaign,” ​he said.

Pete Hegseth will reportedly announce additional 10% cuts to the number of generals and admirals serving in the military at an address at Quantico scheduled for tomorrow.

The Associated Press reports that Pentagon officials have confirmed the cuts, saying Hegseth will direct all military services to double the 10% reduction that he ordered last spring, for a 20% total decrease to be completed by 1 January.

Hegseth, who heads the department of defense, and Donald Trump have already fire