Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee arrives in New Delhi, Tuesday, Sept. 29, 2026. | Photo Credit: PTI

Former West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday (September 30, 2026) reached Delhi to participate in the Opposition INDIA Bloc meeting. The leader of Mamata All India Trinamool Congress was accompanied by MP Dola Sen and Kalyan Banerjee.

“There is a meeting of the INDIA alliance... We have come to participate. Our target is the Chief Election Commissioner and his full software team, who cheated and betrayed the people,” Ms. Banerjee said. The Mamata AITC leader told media persons in Delhi that she has been addressing Gyanesh Kumar as ‘Vanish Kumar’.

Recently, CPI(M) general secretary M. A. Baby reached out to Mamata Banerjee to forge unity among opposition parties on the special, intensive revision of electoral rolls and the role of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar. Ms. Banerjee also held talks with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said in a public meeting that she is ready to ally with any party on the issue involving the Chief Election Commissioner.

Chief Minister Suvendu Adhikari took a dig at the former Chief Minister and accused her of holding a “planning session with Dimagi Naxals” in Delhi.

“INDIA alliance is finished. She is going there to hold a planning session with Dimagi Naxals. I will ask Delhi Police and central IB to keep a watch. One who gives azadi slogans, everyone knows what she can do. One has to see whether she holds meetings with anti-India forces. She is now the advisor for Dimagi Naxals,” Mr. Adhikari told media persons in Kolkata. The Chief Minister has also criticised the coming together of arch rivals CPI(M) and TMC.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.