Cartoonist Satish Acharya’s Instagram account blocked in India

CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Conflict of interest concerns follow CEC Gyanesh Kumar from Sambhal to the Supreme Court

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

SIR violates law, alleges ex-Modi minister; asks if CEC Gyanesh Kumar was directed by his bosses

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

Two home ministry officials arrested for allegedly seeking bribe for FCRA registration

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Days to go for polling, Brazil sees a lackluster election campaign

‘It’s only a bye-poll’: SC refuses to advance hearing of Bengal SIR appeals

The Congress on Tuesday accused Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar of organising a “vote chori”, or vote theft, campaign on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah.

The Opposition party demanded that the three resign to ensure the “safety of the Constitution and hard-earned democracy”.

The demands were part of a resolution adopted at a meeting by the Congress Working Committee, the party’s highest decision-making body.

The Congress also called for the suspension of the ongoing Special Intensive Revision of electoral rolls, citing concerns about the Election Commission’s functioning following “recent reports of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-Bharatiya Janata Party’s capture of the entire electoral process”.

The resolution came after The Indian Express reported that Election Commissioners Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi had formally objected 14 times in 10 months to decisions by the poll panel related to the special intensive revision, saying some had been taken without their knowledge.

CONGRESS WORKING COMMITTEE RESOLUTION.Indira Bhawan, 28 September 2026 pic.twitter.com/nfeU2c8pC0

Their objections were reportedly related to the changes to Form 6, appeals against the inclusion of voters in West Bengal and the handling of voter data in Goa, among other matters. Form 6 is used to register new voters.

In one written objection, Sandhu was quoted as having stated that the poll panel had acted against the advice of both commissioners and described the action as “unauthorised and illegal”.

The two election commissioners had also raised concerns over access to the digital electoral roll database.

The Election Commission has rejected reports of a rift, saying differences in views and observations are a normal part of its deliberations.

However, the Congress said that the reports raised questions about the constitutional validity of the SIR process. It argued that a process that already shifts the burden on voters to establish their eligibility had been “executed in haste without transparent safeguards”.

“An exercise of doubtful constitutional validity cannot be allowed to decide who may vote in the world’s largest democracy,” the resolution said.

The party also called for the restoration of 13.3 crore names that it said had been removed from electoral rolls as part of the voter list revision process.

The Congress also demanded independent and time-bound inquiries wherever evidence of serious discrepancies in the electoral rolls emerges.

“The BJP and its handpicked officials must understand that this brazen theft of the people’s franchise will not go unanswered,” the resolution said.

The demands came a day before the Opposition INDIA bloc is set to meet in Delhi to discuss a possible nationwide campaign against alleged electoral irregularities.

Also read: Conflict of interest concerns follow CEC Gyanesh Kumar from Sambhal to the Supreme Court