Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

The Army said a joint search operation was launched by the Army, J&K Police and CRPF in the general area of Korag, Yousmarg, in Budgam “based on specific intelligence input” on the night of September 29. File | Photo Credit: Imran Nissar

The Army on Wednesday (September 30, 2026) said a Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) ‘commander’ Mohammad Asif alias Hashim Moosa, active in the Pir Panjal Valley and south Kashmir, was killed in an ongoing operation in central Kashmir’s Budgam district.

“During the search early morning in Palmaidan, the body of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT) terrorist, identified as Mohammad Asif alias Hashim Moosa recovered along with war like stores,” said the Army.

Officials said the killing of Moosa is a breakthrough for the security forces, as he had remained active in the Pir Panchal Valley, central and south Kashmir, for several years. Officials said Moosa coordinated many attacks in the region and was part of the larger LeT group active in the Kashmir valley.

The Army said a joint search operation was launched by the Army, J&K Police and CRPF in the general area Korag, Yousmarg, in Budgam “based on specific intelligence input” on Tuesday (September 29, 2026) night.

“Vigilant troops observed suspicious activity, and upon being challenged, terrorists opened fire, prompting a fierce exchange of gunfire during which one terrorist neutralised,” the Army said.

The Army said the operation was in progress. The identity and affiliation of the slain terrorist could not be established immediately.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.