A top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist wanted in connection with several attacks was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam district on Tuesday, officials said.

Security officials identified the slain terrorist as Mohammad Asif, alias ‘Hashim Moosa’. He was wanted for his alleged involvement in attacks on both sides of the Pir Panjal range over several years, officials said. He had also reportedly escaped a security operation in the Yousmarg hills earlier this month.

He was killed in Operation Korag, a joint anti-militancy operation conducted by the Indian Army's Chinar Corps, J&K Police, and CRPF, in the Korag area near Yousmarg in the Budgam.

According to the Army, troops challenged the suspected terrorists after noticing their movement. The militants responded by opening fire, leading to a gunbattle.

“Vigilant troops observed suspicious activity, and upon being challenged, the terrorists opened fire, prompting a fierce exchange of gunfire during which one terrorist was neutralised,” the Army said in a post on X. Moosa was said to be killed in the remote forest area of Dudhpathri during the operation.

The Chinar Corps later said they'd found his body. “Further to the ongoing operation, during the search early morning in General Area Palmaidan, body of Pak based Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT) terrorist, identified as Mohammad Asif alias Hashim Moosa recovered along with war like stores,” they wrote on X.

Moosa was reportedly wanted for his alleged involvement in a series of attacks on security forces in the Pir Panjal region. According to security officials, the group he was associated with was linked to attacks in Poonch and other parts of Jammu and Kashmir that killed several Army and security personnel between 2021 and 2024.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More