Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Indian Coast Guard seizes 526 kg of illicit substance worth ₹3,000 crore in the Arabian Sea. Videograb: @PTI_News/X

The Indian Coast Guard, in a joint operation with the Gujarat ATS, has seized 526 kg of methamphetamine and heroin valued at more than ₹3,000 crore from an Iranian boat in the Arabian Sea, officials said on Wednesday (September 30, 2026).

Five Pakistani nationals operating the vessel were also detained in the operation carried out near Lakshadweep on September 25, the Coast Guard said in a statement.

Based on intelligence inputs, Coast Guard assets carried out sea-air surveillance and tracked the suspicious dhow before launching a hot pursuit and boarding it west of Lakshadweep, it said.

The seized contraband comprised high-grade methamphetamine and heroin, the Coast Guard said.

The vessel, its crew and the seized drugs were brought to Mumbai under armed escort for joint interrogation and further legal proceedings, it said.

VIDEO | Indian Coast Guard seizes 526 kg of illicit substance worth Rs 3000 crore in the Arabian Sea, 5 held.(Source: Indian Coast Guard/@IndiaCoastGuard)(Full video available on PTI Videos - https://t.co/d8jp61yd2p) pic.twitter.com/3elnu866Y2

The operation was conducted in coordination with the Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad.

The State ATS also confirmed the apprehension of five Pakistani nationals. It is scheduled to brief the media on the operation later in the day.

The seizure comes as security agencies step up efforts to curb transnational drug trafficking through the maritime route.

The Coast Guard said the operation demonstrated its surveillance and maritime interdiction capabilities and its commitment to preventing illicit activities in India's maritime zones.

The seizure would help disrupt the financial network of international drug syndicates and prevent synthetic drugs from reaching the mainland, it added.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.