Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Emergency personnel work at the site and look for survivors after a building collapsed, in New Delhi. | Photo Credit: Reuters

At least five people were killed when a five-storeyed building housing college students collapsed on Sunday (September 6, 2026) in South West Delhi’s Satya Niketan, a dense hub for paying guest or PG accommodation near Delhi University‘s South Campus.

Also Read | Delhi University students struggle with high rents, rental scams as session begins

Of the 11 people pulled out of the building and taken to the hospital, four were declared as brought dead at the JPN Apex Trauma Centre at AIIMS. One was in critical condition and later succumbed to injuries. Three people have been admitted at AIIMS and are being treated, while another underwent limb surgery. One patient sustained minor injuries and was discharged after observation, doctors said. One more person, a 19-year-old man, was taken to Safdarjung hospital and is stable.

Also read | If scooter was any closer, we would have been under it, says eyewitness

Delhi police officials said they are in the process of registering a first information report (FIR) against Anand Bansal, who runs the PG accommodation named Hostel Daze. Residents said the building, which comprises a basement plus five more floors, is at least 50 years old. Repair work was underway in the basement when the incident occurred, officials said.

Building collapse in Satya Niketan highlights the urgent housing crisis faced by outstation students near Delhi University.

Students in Delhi use phones and social media to locate missing friends after the Satya Niketan building collapse.

The Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) on Sunday demanded accountability and a safety audit of all paying guest (PG) hostels in Delhi after a five-storey hostel building collapsed in the city’s Satya Niketan area, leaving five dead and several trapped.

CJP founder and convenor Abhijeet Dipke criticised the government’s priorities over educational infrastructure, saying students were being forced to live and study in unsafe conditions even as political establishments received attention and resources.- PTI

Around 150-200 ABVP students gathered at the Civic Centre here on Sunday (September 6) to protest against the building collapse incident in south Delhi’s Satya Niketan, police said.

The protesters entered the Civic Centre through Gate No. 5 and staged a demonstration outside the main building, raising slogans and protesting against the functioning of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), they said.

Delhi CM Rekha Gupta orders magisterial probe in Satya Niketan house collapse incident, says CMO .-PTI

Standing on the first floor of a temple adjacent to the site, Ms. Gupta declared that whoever is responsible for the collapse will not be spared, whether it is the building’s owner or a government official.

Delhi CM vows accountability for the recent building collapse as leaders demand action on the city's student housing crisis.

Locals blamed repair work and water accumulation in the basement, while the MCD said it could not verify whether work was underway until the debris was cleared.

According to officials, the MCD has evacuated tenants from the building housing a girls’ PG adjoining the collapsed building and sealed it.

The official said the collapsed building violated norms and was only allowed to build a ground floor plus the first floor.

Delhi Chief Minister Rekha Gupta visits the AIIMS Trauma Centre and reviewed the treatment of those injured in the collapse.

“All the students are under close medical supervision at AIIMS. Chief Minister has instructed the medical team to ensure every necessary intervention and the best possible care. Delhi Government is also in constant touch with their families. We wish all the injured students a swift and complete recovery.” she said in a pose on social media.

Delhi Additional DCP Abhimanyu Poswal confirmed that three people died in the incident and nine people have been taken out of the debris.

Outside the AIIMS Trauma Centre, the panic was palpable on Sunday (September 6, 2026) as friends and relatives of students injured in the Satya Niketan building collapse waited anxiously for updates, many unable to see their loved ones inside the emergency ward.

Heavy police deployment at AIIMS, rows of attendees in the waiting area not allowed as Delhi CM reaches the hospital.

Jasraj, the uncle of Anuroodh, a victim from Uttar Pradesh, had rushed to the hospital after receiving a call from the student’s mother.

“I received a call from the child’s mother in Uttar Pradesh and came here to check on him. I have only been able to see him once. He has multiple injuries, but we are just relieved that he is safe. There are at least 10-12 other injured students in the ward. 