Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

Results are still trickling in from yesterday's primary elections in Alaska, Florida and Wyoming. Two candidates named Dan Sullivan and former Democratic Congresswoman Mary Peltola moved forward on the ballot for Alaska's U.S. Senate race. Fourth place in the race remains too close to call. In Florida, progressives saw mixed results in House and Senate races.

Democratic U.S. Senate candidate, Florida state Rep. Angie Nixon, participates in a worship service during a visit to the Ebenezer Missionary Baptist Church on Aug. 17, 2026, in Hallandale Beach, Florida. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption

Less than two hours before the deadline, President Trump announced on Truth Social that the U.S. will postpone a 50% tariff on approximately $20 billion worth of Canadian imports by three days. Trump said the two countries had reached a deal that aims to resume construction of the controversial Keystone pipeline project to deliver oil from Canada to the U.S.

The high-stakes trial against Meta began yesterday, pitting Facebook and Instagram's parent company against four states that accuse it of intentionally designing its social media platforms to be addictive for young users and misrepresenting the risks to the public. The initial estimate for potential penalties in this case could reach up to $1.4 trillion, roughly the entire value of Meta's equity on Nasdaq.

Many recent college graduates think AI is making it harder for them to find jobs. This year, a ZipRecruiter survey of recent graduates found that 47% of respondents said AI had already affected hiring in their field. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the unemployment rate for recent grads was 5.7% as of June, which is higher than the 4.1% rate for all workers. But is AI really the problem? Here's what economists have to say:

A midwife crisscrosses Alabama to care for pregnant women and deliver babies. It's an important profession as maternity deserts expand across the U.S., according to the latest March of Dimes report. Maria Fabrizio/NPR hide caption

As a mother of two, I understand what it means to hope and pray for a smooth pregnancy, safe delivery and healthy baby. I spent many quiet moments wishing for the best while waiting for my children to enter the world.

When I learned that women and babies in America experience some of the poorest maternity outcomes in the developed world, I was stunned. The more I found out, the more compelled I felt to dig deeper.

The personal story of an actor I admired growing up caught my attention a few years ago. Tatyana Ali starred in The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air as the lovable Ashley Banks in the 1990s. Seeing a Black girl like me on screen brought me so much pride and joy.

In recent years, Ali has begun publicly sharing the story of her first child's birth. She experienced what she describes as birth trauma at the hands of a hospital maternity care team. I wanted to know more, so I reached out.

After an initial conversation, Ali agreed to meet me at NPR headquarters while she was visiting Washington, D.C., last fall. With emotion and complete candor, she shared her story — and solutions — with me and. Be on the lookout for more on her story on NPR.

Ali's organization Baby Yams helped Nadia Gramby, the midwife we profiled, cover the final expenses to complete her requirements to become a midwife. I was curious about Gramby's journey. Her passion and dedication to serving women across Alabama were striking to me. We spoke on the phone a few times and met virtually. Meeting sweet baby River Emmanuel over Zoom was really fun!

In reporting this story, I learned a great deal about midwifery care and efforts to raise awareness of midwives as a valuable solution to address patterns of dangerous birth outcomes for moms and babies and disparities. In the course of my reporting, the March of Dimes alerted me to its new findings on access to maternity care. NPR has covered the issue for a long time. It was clear to me that the story needed to be told again.

A giant sequoia tree, with a circumference of 70 feet, stands beyond the remnants of small trees along the Trail of 100 Giants on August 25, 2022 in Sequoia National Forest, California. Mario Tama/Getty Images hide caption