Ecuador's intelligence chief and his wife were killed in a helicopter crash in Kenya on Wednesday.

Five Americans were also killed in the crash, a US State Department spokesperson has said.

Michele Sensi-Contugi and his wife Stephany Hollihan were among the seven people killed when the accident happened in Samburu county at approximately 09:13 local time (06:13 GMT).

The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) said the helicopter was on a scenic flight from a wildlife conservancy in Loisaba to Ewaso Nyiro, a river that flows along several national reserves.

The transport ministry and Air Accident Investigations Department would lead "investigations into the circumstances surrounding the accident", it added.

Samburu county is a popular tourist destination with many private wildlife conservancies and is renowned for its stunning landscape.

Images from the scene show smoke at the wooded crash site on Mount Ololokwe, as members of the Kenya Red Cross approach the still-burning wreckage.

"The National Government expresses its most heartfelt condolences over the sensitive passing of Michele Sensi-Contugi and his wife Stephany Hollihan," Ecuador's presidential office said in a statement on X.

Former President of Ecuador Guillermo Lasso also paid tribute on X, confirming the couple died in the helicopter crash.

Sensi-Contugi, 44, was named director general of the Strategic Intelligence Center of Ecuador in 2024.

Lady Lori Helicopters, which operated the the Eurocopter EC130 B4 aircraft, said it was "deeply saddened" by the accident.

"Our deepest sympathies are with the guests, crew, their families and loved ones, and all those affected by this tragic accident," a statement read.

According to a memo seen by the BBC's US partner CBS News, external one of the Americans killed in the crash was NBCUniversal journalist José Alberto Suárez.

In the memo, NBCUniversal called Suárez "a deeply respected leader and beloved friend and colleague.

"José was an exceptional colleague and mentor to many," the memo read.

The four other American victims have not yet been identified.

Earlier reports had suggested seven people, six tourists and a pilot, were killed in the crash.

In February, a helicopter crash in the Rift Valley county of Nandi killed six people, including a member of parliament.

In 2024, the military chief, Gen Francis Omondi Ogolla, died after an army helicopter that was carrying 11 people crashed in the west of the country, with only two survivors.

In June 2021 at least 10 soldiers were killed when their helicopter crashed while landing near the capital, Nairobi.

Mysterious elephant deaths in Kenya raise questions around pesticides

The African elephant in the room: Is there such a thing as guilt-free safari?

Go to BBCAfrica.com, external for more news from the African continent.

Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, external, on Facebook at BBC Africa, external or on Instagram at bbcafrica, external