Ayodhya land deals yield rich dividends for relatives of politicians

Anand Teltumbde: Why after 80 years, ‘polluting’ touch of a Dalit still needs ‘purifying’

‘Dimagi naxals’: The freedom to disagree is a political right – and is economically valuable

In a new book on her reading life, Shanta Gokhale writes about Henrik Ibsen’s play ‘A Doll’s House’

‘Regime Change’: This book about Donald Trump’s second term is essential, chilling reading

Arrest warrant against Mahua Moitra for not appearing before court in case about provocative remarks

Friendship paradox: Why young people feel ‘too connected to connect’

Tourists attacked for wearing shorts at Pune fort, asked if they ‘don’t know Hindu culture’

Fiction: A family’s personal history from the Anglo-Sikh wars to the uneasy years of British rule

Rush Hour: India least-preferred Asian stock market, Tejashwi Yadav detained during protest & more

Jammu and Kashmir is an important part of India and the United States will consider revising its travel warning for the region, ANI quoted US Ambassador Sergio Gor as saying on Wednesday.

He said that Washington would re-evaluate the safety advisory as the Union government and Chief Minister Omar Abdullah had taken steps to make the region safer.

#WATCH | Srinagar, J&K | After meeting with CM Omar Abdullah, US Ambassador to India, Sergio Gor says, "The United States puts out travel warnings and every so often we re-evaluate those travel warnings. I cannot make any big announcements here today but it is something that we… pic.twitter.com/0HYGGQUXqw

The US advisory has consistently urged its citizens travelling to India to exercise “increased caution” due to incidents of terrorism and crime, adding that certain parts of the country have heightened risks. It advises against travelling to Jammu and Kashmir, except for the eastern Ladakh region and its capital Leh, citing “terrorism and civil unrest”.

“Violence happens sporadically in this area and is common along the Line of Control [LoC] between India and Pakistan,” the current advisory states. “Violence also occurs in tourist spots in the Kashmir Valley: Srinagar, Gulmarg and Pahalgam.”

Gor’s remarks came after he met Abdullah in Srinagar during a visit to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. He is scheduled to travel to Leh on Thursday.

The US’ long-standing position on Kashmir has been that the territory’s status should be settled through negotiations between India and Pakistan “while taking into consideration the wishes of the Kashmiri people”.

Speaking with reporters alongside Gor, Abdullah said that they discussed matters concerning Jammu and Kashmir, including what the US could do for the region, PTI reported.

VIDEO | Srinagar: On his Jammu and Kashmir visit, US Ambassador to India Sergio Gor says, "It's a pleasure to be here... This (J&K) is an important part of India and I'm here visiting for the first time. It's an incredibly beautiful place, and I'm thrilled to be here. I'm… pic.twitter.com/8BzNijGAAB

“This is a conversation that will take place both with Ambassador Gor and Washington and with me and the Government of India in Delhi,” the news agency quoted the chief minister as saying.

“We are very hopeful and optimistic that the engagement between the United States of America and Jammu and Kashmir will both widen and deepen in the years ahead,” he added.