Ayodhya land deals yield rich dividends for relatives of politicians

Anand Teltumbde: Why after 80 years, ‘polluting’ touch of a Dalit still needs ‘purifying’

‘Dimagi naxals’: The freedom to disagree is a political right – and is economically valuable

In a new book on her reading life, Shanta Gokhale writes about Henrik Ibsen’s play ‘A Doll’s House’

‘Regime Change’: This book about Donald Trump’s second term is essential, chilling reading

Arrest warrant against Mahua Moitra for not appearing before court in case about provocative remarks

Friendship paradox: Why young people feel ‘too connected to connect’

Tourists attacked for wearing shorts at Pune fort, asked if they ‘don’t know Hindu culture’

Fiction: A family’s personal history from the Anglo-Sikh wars to the uneasy years of British rule

Rush Hour: India least-preferred Asian stock market, Tejashwi Yadav detained during protest & more

Nine persons, including two women and a child, were killed after a fire broke out at a hotel on Mirza Ghalib Street in central Kolkata early on Wednesday, ANI reported.

At least three Bangladeshi citizens were among those who died, The Indian Express quoted an unidentified police official as saying. The others were from Meghalaya and Alipurduar in West Bengal, according to the newspaper.

The fire was reported at around 2 am and was brought under control by 4.30 am, ANI quoted the Kolkata Police as saying.

Sixty persons were rescued, the news agency quoted the police as saying.

A guest from Bangladesh told The Indian Express that the hotel had no firefighting system. “We woke up struggling to breathe in the smoke,” he said. “We somehow managed to escape.”

#WATCH | Nine people have died and several have suffered injuries in a fire that broke out in a hotel in Kolkata's Mirza Ghalib Street around 2 am todayTeams of Police and Civil Defence are present at the accident site pic.twitter.com/P6Q8kcImzI

A police officer said that the dense smoke made it difficult for firefighters to climb the staircase and reach the upper floors, reported PTI.

The fire broke out in a congested area near New Market, which has several hotels that are popular with visitors from Bangladesh seeking medical treatment.

Police said the exact cause of the blaze was yet to be established.

The incident came two days after a fire in Tarapith town of Birbhum district killed eight persons. At least 15 hotels in the area were sealed and asked to stop operations afterwards, reported The Hindu.