Just another pilot until a day ago, flydubai Captain Smit Machchhar became the toast of India, and the world, as acclamations and tributes streamed in Thursday from US President Donald Trump, PM Modi, President Droupadi Murmu and Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, among others, for putting his life at risk to avert a mid-air tragedy.The knife attack on Smit by the co-pilot inside the cockpit had forced the flight carrying 174 people from Dubai to Tel Aviv, Israel, to make an emergency landing in Tabuk in northwestern Saudi Arabia on Wednesday. Smit, 39, is recovering in Abu Dhabi.Trump hailed Smit as a "hero" for fighting off the knife attack and opening the cockpit door to call for help. "The pilot, in bad shape, had the sense to open the door. In a way he was a hero," Trump said. Flyers helped overpower the co-pilot, and a reserve flight crew travelling as passengers landed the plane safely."In the face of the gravest danger... he showed immense courage and an unwavering resolve to protect the lives of others," Modi wrote on X. The PM said he had spoken with Smit's parents and wife. "Smit's bravery fills every Indian with pride," the PM said.School friend Bhavin Jethva remembered Smit as "straightforward, bindass". Smit's classmates at a flying school in New Zealand went to him whenever a subject got difficult. As a captain and line trainer, he spoke to loaders and catering staff with the same respect as fellow pilots, friends said.PM: Captain Smit’s presence of mind prevented 9/11-like attackPraising Smit Machchar for demonstrating ”patience, presence of mind and courage”, PM Narendra Modi said his “actions prevented another 9/11-like attack”.Several Union ministers, CMs, and sportspersons celebrated Smit’s bravery. Special prayers were held in Varanasi and Gujarat’s Somnath temple, while his classmates from school have been posting prayers for his recovery on their WhatsApp group. A podcast interview by Smit last year has surfaced, in which he recalled how nervous he was and how he made mistakes during his first commercial flight and the lessons he learned. “Stressing is not going to help, at least … in this industry,” he told Zalak Mehta of the ‘Bona-Fide Banter’ podcast.His presence of mind was lauded by President Murmu, who wrote on X, “Even after being injured, he remained determined to protect the lives of others. His bravery and quick response helped prevent a major tragedy and saved many lives”.Netanyahu was among the first to applaud Smit’s “extraordinary bravery” in a post on X, saying the captain prevented a “catastrophic midair disaster”. He said, “he saved the lives of 174 people, including Israeli citizens and other nationals”.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.