The Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) is all set for its next protest in Mumbai. CJP leader Abhijeet Dipke on Thursday sought the resignation of Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Gyanesh Kumar, warning of launching nationwide protests if their demands are not met.

According to PTI, Abhijeet Dipke said that the CJP will hold a protest at Shivaji Park in the Dadar area on October 2 to seek their demands.

CJP is demanding the CEC Gyanesh Kumar's resignation. Their protest came after a report about alleged differences within the Election Commission of India (ECI) surfaced. The opposition called for Gyanesh Kumar's resignation; CJP also joined, demanding the same.

On September 25, Abhijeet Dipke and other CJP members Saurav Das and Ashutosh Ranka proposed their three demands.

Gyanesh Kumar's resignation alongside criminal proceedings against the CEC.

Put the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) on hold and reinstate the January 2025 voter list.

Scrap the 2023 legislation alongside reforms to the Election Commission.

The CJP alleged that the ECI, under Gyanesh Kumar, has not been functioning in favour of the country’s interest, amid reports of differences within the poll panel and allegations over its functioning.

However, the Election Commission had dismissed claims of an internal breakdown following the alleged report. EC, in a statement, maintained that all three commissioners were in agreement on its decisions, including those related to the SIR.

Meanwhile, there is no clarity regarding the Friday protest in Mumbai. Previously, the Mumbai Police on X shared that "Permission has been denied because Mumbai Police is not empowered to grant permission for any gathering at Shivaji Park" in accordance with a 2013 Bombay High Court order. Police urged the applicant to look for alternate venues for the protest, citing concerns over crowd management, traffic disruption and noise levels.

Abhijeet Dipke had alleged that the permission to hold the protest was denied in an attempt to suppress the movement. He said on X that the CJP would launch "Jail Bharo Andolan" if they are denied their right to protest.

"If we are denied the right to protest, CJP will launch a Jail Bharo Andolan in Mumbai on Gandhi Jayanti," he warned.

On Thursday, Dipke said that CJP protests will continue until Kumar steps down from his post. "Protests will be held in Goa, Karnataka, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. If he does not resign, then a protest will be held at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi from October end," he said.

Dipke also demanded that the appointment of CEC should be made in a transparent manner, involving civil society.

A protest at Jantar Mantar against Gyanesh Kumar is also proposed to take place tomorrow. It has been called by social activists and student groups over issues related to the functioning of the Election Commission and the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls.

However, Delhi Police is yet to grant permission, as per ANI.

The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and the Shiv Sena (UBT) are also scheduled to take out a morcha against the Election Commission in Mumbai on October 4.

The opposition INDIA bloc is also set to intensify its protest against the Election Commission from October 2.

The INDIA bloc will organise district-level “Save Democracy” marches and demonstrations outside district magistrates' offices from October 2 to 8, Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge said after a meeting of the opposition alliance, The Economic Times reported.

Sneha Biswas specialises in covering entertainment and pop culture, with a specialisation on Bollywood, Hollywood, OTT platforms, K-pop, K-dramas, and major developments in the US entertainment industry. She believes in telling stories that balance speed with substance, and in making entertainment journalism contextual, culturally aware, and reader-first rather than purely reactive.<br><br> With over six years of experience in digital media, Sneha currently serves as a Deputy Chief Content Producer at Live Mint. She has spent more than three and a half years with the HT Group and returned to the organisation in February 2025, joining Live Mint to uplift the entertainment section. Over the past year, she has been closely involved in entertainment coverage including breaking news, explainers, trend reporting, box office reports and analysis for the audience.<br><br> Sneha is Google News certified, having completed training focused on newsroom best practices, digital reporting, and SEO-driven content strategies. Her work reflects a strong understanding of audience behaviour, search trends, and the evolving consumption patterns of entertainment news across formats.<br><br> Prior to her current role, Sneha has worked across multiple content and editorial functions within digital newsrooms, building expertise in content planning, editing, and real-time coverage. Her professional interests lie at the intersection of entertainment, internet culture, an