Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Karnataka CM D.K. Shivakumar, along with Cabinet Ministers, stages a protest outside the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, in Bengaluru against the filing of Form-7s in bulk seeking deletion of Muslim voters from the draft voter rolls during the ongoing Special Intensive Revision (SIR). | Photo Credit: Allen Egenuse J

The Election Commission of India (ECI) ordered a probe into the filing of Form-7s in bulk seeking deletions of names from final electoral rolls following a five-hour protest by Karnataka Chief Minister D. K. Shivakumar and his Cabinet colleagues.

Chief Electoral Officer of Karnataka, V. Anbu Kumar, directed all Electoral Registration Officers (EROs) to take action against applicants who “knowingly” make false statements or declarations while filing claims or objections in Forms 6, 6A, 7 and 8.

Earlier in the day, he alleged that “pre-filled” Form-7s were filed in bulk across the State by the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (Secular) workers, targeting Muslims, members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes, claiming they had either “shifted” or were “absent”.

The Chief Minister said many Form-7s were either false or forged. In at least two instances, in Belagavi and Vijayapura, BJP workers who filed Form-7s in bulk withdrew those after being warned of punitive action if the claims were found to be false. In a written declaration, they said they had made a mistake.

Karnataka Police registered five FIRs on Thursday (October 1, 2026) over bulk Form-7s invoking the Bharatiya Nyay Sanhita, 2023, and not the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as only EC officials can lodge complaints under the latter. Mr. Shivakumar demanded that poll body must take suo motu action and lodge criminal complaints.

Mr. Anbu Kumar noted that there were instances of bulk filing of Form-7 applications before the EROs and that some of the forms were “alleged to be not genuine” and directed the EROs to take action under Section 31 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, “against applicants found to have knowingly made false statements or declarations.”

“However, such action shall be preceded by an inquiry under Rule 20 of the Registration of Electors Rules, 1960,” he said.

The BJP backed its workers for filing Form-7s, saying that it was not a crime to flag voters suspected to be not genuine.

Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Rahul Gandhi, took to social media citing The Hindu’s report on how Form-7 applications were being filed against Muslim names in Belagavi and other districts in bulk, and said it was yet another proof of “vote theft”.

“Select people are targeted as BJP and EC officials collude to fill out Form 7 in bulk through automated means, and in the blink of an eye, millions vanish from the voter list. And all of this is controlled from the top,” he said.

Karnataka / election / Special Intensive Revision of electoral rolls / voting / Election Commission of India

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.