Eggs, chicken could cost more as maize shortage due to ethanol blending will worsen amid poor rain

Review: The heart beats extra hard and fast in ‘Dupahiya’ season 2

The Indian state has made Bengali Muslims outsiders in their own land

Karnataka SIR: Over 4,000 applications to delete voters, mostly Muslims, says report

Another Muslim man from Bengal pushed into Bangladesh despite voter ID and passport, says family

Cartoonist Satish Acharya’s Instagram account blocked in India

An artist who thought cinematically: What Tyeb Mehta’s drawings and sketches say about his art

On Translation Day, here are 30 translations into English of fiction from Indian languages

Monsoon ends with 12.6% rainfall deficit, driest season in a decade

Of the 4,000 applications filed to delete voters from Karnataka’s electoral rolls during the special intensive revision, a majority targeted Muslims, The Hindu reported on Tuesday.

The newspaper report is based on data from Form 10, which consolidates details of Form 7 applications filed to remove voters.

In two cases, The Hindu found already filled and printed Form 7s with names of voters whose deletion was being sought. Only the objectors’ names were handwritten.

In Vijayapura district’s Babaleshwar Assembly constituency, 1,373 Form 7 applications were received on September 22. Of these, 99.2%, or 1,363, were filed by just 10 persons, largely against Muslim voters in polling stations where the objectors themselves were not registered.

Similar patterns were reported in Bhalki in Bidar district, where more than 1,700 deletions were sought by 30 persons on September 23. Several of those who filed multiple objections on that day had also filed applications the previous day.

Before September 22, Form 7 applications seeking deletion on the grounds that a voter had shifted were generally limited, usually to two or three applications per polling station. Such applications were mostly filed by electors who had moved, the newspaper found.

However, the bulk applications began appearing on September 22, a day before the last day to file claims and objections.

Officials in Bidar and Vijayapura told The Hindu that the objections would be scrutinised before any action is taken.

They also said people who filed objections in bulk had been told that submitting claims without valid grounds, if established, could lead to punishment.

In Delhi, booth-level agents used the Election Commission’s online portal to submit more than 10 Form 7 applications a day during the claims and objections phase of the voter roll revision process, reported The Hindu.

The Election Commission’s guidelines state that booth level agents of recognised political parties may file applications in bulk, subject to a limit of 10 forms a day after publication of the draft electoral roll.

Between September 21 and September 27, more than 1,000 Form 7 objections were filed in Delhi. Of this, four individuals filed more than 10 applications in a day.

One of them, a BJP booth-level agent, Chitresh Chandoliya, filed 35 objections in two days, the newspaper found.

He told the newspaper that he had filed all the applications online.

“If I were to submit the forms to the EC office, I would not be allowed more than 10,” he said. “You need to be a party-appointed BLA to fill forms in bulk. For online, there is no such condition.”

The poll panel’s guidelines require Form 7 applications to be computerised and uploaded on the Delhi chief electoral officer’s website daily.

However, The Hindu found that these application-level details had not been published on the website nearly a month into the claims and objections period.

The deadline for filing claims and objections in Delhi has been extended from September 30 to October 30. The final electoral roll is due to be published on December 4.

Since the exercise began in June 2025, the SIR has faced questions about the manner and pace of its implementation, amid concerns that it could deny genuine electors their right to vote and shape election outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the exercise, but said that it does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.

Despite this, Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states have cited the SIR to deny ration cards to those who have been eliminated from the rolls. In some cases, the police have denied permission for their passports to be renewed.

The Opposition and civil society groups have been demanding the removal of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar over revelations in a September 23 report by The Indian Express.

The newspaper reported that two election commissioners, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi, had formally objected 14 times in 10 months to the poll panel’s decisions about the SIR, saying that some had been taken without their knowledge.

Their objections were related to the registration of new voters and changes to Form 6, a