More than a dozen buildings collapsed in aftermath of earthquake, which has also prompted evacuations

Colombia’s new president, Abelardo de la Espriella, said the death toll from the earthquake has now reached 111, Reuters is reporting.

At least 87 were injured and 61 buildings collapsed, he said, noting the rescue of survivors was his priority.

The mayor of Pereira has declared a state of public calamity and manifest urgency, along with a curfew that will be in effect from 6pm on Monday until 5am Tuesday in the following areas: Centro, Comuna Universidad, and SubCentro de la Comuna Cuba.

A car-free day measure will also start at 4pm on Monday and all day on Tuesday. Classes in educational institutions are also suspended.

“As mayor of Pereira, I must appeal to the solidarity of all Pereirans to go home because we need traffic to flow for emergency response agencies. We need to address this emergency. That is why, starting at this moment, I declare the Exceptional State of Curfew. Starting at this moment and indefinitely, classes are suspended in all educational institutions,” said Mauricio Salazar.

In the city, located in the heart of the coffee-producing mountains of Colombia and around 35 miles from the earthquake’s epicentre, 40 people have been reported dead. According to the mayor’s update, 65 buildings collapsed in the metropolitan area, and people are assumed trapped in 15 of them.

Several clinics were forced to close due either to demand on services or infrastructure risks, while Matecaña airport “suffered damage to its facilities, with several people deceased”.

Several people are also trapped in gondolas in Megacable, and the mayor said the rescue process for them would begin soon, but for the time being “their lives are not in danger at this moment” and “priority is being given to collapsed buildings”.

Colombia’s vice-president, José Manuel Restrepo Abondano, posted on X:

double quotation markMr. President, I heed your instruction. We already have the support of our international allies who have responded with solidarity and commitment. We will not rest until that aid reaches every family that needs it and contributes to the recovery of the affected territories. Today the world extends a hand to #Colombia, and we will stand by every community struck by this tragedy, working tirelessly to help it move forward.

As we reported earlier, world leaders including the US and EU have sent messages of solidarity and offered support to Colombia.

Ecuador’s president Daniel Noboa Azin also offered 47 rescuers, specialized dogs, and equipment with autonomy to operate for 7 days. “We are ready to mobilize whenever you require,” he wrote on X.

Mexico’s president Claudia Sheinbaum also wrote: “Of course, all the support that the people of Colombia may require; we’ll be there.”

Brazil’s Lula also expressed his solidarity, writing on X: “Brazil remains at Colombia’s disposal to provide the necessary support.”

Nayib Bukele, president of El Salvador, said he was in communication with Colombian officials and was “ready to provide immediate support with our rescue teams, medical personnel, paramedics, supplies, or any other assistance that our Colombian brothers and sisters deem necessary”.

In Europe, French president Emmanuel Macron said: “I extend, on behalf of France, my most sincere thoughts to the Colombian people. I think of the victims, their families, the injured, and all those who have been affected by this disaster. Our solidarity also goes to the rescue teams and all those who are working, with courage, to assist the affected populations. In this ordeal, Colombia can count on our friendship and our support.”

Spanish prime minister Pedro Sánchez also offered “affection and solidarity with the Colombian people” and said Spain “stands with Colombia” at this difficult time.

Italian PM Giorgia Meloni said she was “anxiously” following updates on the earthquake. “In these difficult hours, Italy stands in solidarity with the Colombian people, the affected families, and all those engaged in rescue and assistance operations,” she said.

And Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Ukraine stands in “full support” and offered his condolences to those who have lost loved ones. “We call on everyone around the world who can support the affected people and countries right now to step up and help,” he wrote on X.

Colombian pop star Shakira has said her heart is with “everyone who felt this earthquake today”.

“In times like these, we Colombians know how to come together and support one another,” she wrote on X. “All my strength and love for my homeland. Let’s embrace tightly and stay tuned to the instructions so we can help as soon as possible.”

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said on Monday that the European Union was “ready to provide more support” to Colombia.

“Tonight, Europe’s heart is with the people of Colombia after the terrible earthquake in the Choco region. We have already mobilised Copern