A letter from Lahore for Abhijeet Dipke: We watch with wonder and longing

Journalist Aman Chopra says FIR filed against him for report from hospital amid Jharkhand protests

Business biography: How Jatinder Mehra, former Executive Director of SAIL, rebuilt its workforce

Rural jobs fall nearly 50% in first month of VB-G RAM G: Report

NALSAR students oppose inviting CJI for convocation over his response to police action on protesters

‘A lifetime of looking’: Arundhathi Subramanian on how Gieve Patel translated two Gujarati mystics

Nairobi is bulldozing the Kibera settlement for a housing project, but who really benefits?

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday reiterated his rejection of United States President Donald Trump’s peace plan for Gaza, saying that Tel Aviv would not withdraw its forces from the territory until Hamas is “genuinely” disarmed, Reuters reported.

His remarks came even as the Israeli military has largely halted attacks in Gaza under pressure from Trump. Nikolay Mladenov, the Gaza envoy for Trump’s Board of Peace, said on Sunday that talks on the new roadmap to ending the conflict were still ongoing after meeting Netanyahu on Monday.

On July 30, Trump announced that the so-called Board of Peace had arrived at an agreement for the “complete disarmament” of Palestinian militant group Hamas and “all other armed” organisations operating in Gaza.

A day later, Hamas had said that it had agreed to the proposal, which would entail the group handing over its weapons and Israeli forces gradually withdrawing from the Gaza Strip.

The disarmament of Hamas had been among the sticking points in the peace deal moving forward.

The agreement will be carried out in phases, Trump said. “As disarmament is completed, Israeli forces will withdraw, and the International Stabilization Force will work with a new Palestinian police force to take responsibility for Gaza being safe for its residents and its neighbours,” he added.

Israel’s military offensive in Gaza began in October 2023 after Hamas killed 1,200 persons during its incursion into southern Israel and took hostages. Israel has been carrying out unprecedented air and ground strikes on Gaza since then, leaving more than 73,300 persons dead.

In September, the United Nations Independent International Commission of Inquiry said that Israel committed genocide against Palestinians in Gaza.

In June, commission said that the Israeli military had deliberately targeted and killed Palestinian children to commit a genocide. The Israeli forces have killed more than 20,000 children and injured 44,000 since October 2023, the panel said.