Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that strikes on such facilities were directly linked with putting more pressure on Moscow

Meanwhile, Ukraine’s ⁠military ⁠has confirmed it ⁠hit ⁠the ​Taneko ‌oil ‌refinery in ‌Russia’s Tatarstan region overnight, ‌adding that a ​fire ⁠was recorded ​at ​the ​facility, Reuters reported.

Ukraine’s ⁠military ⁠has confirmed it ⁠hit ⁠the ​Taneko ‌oil ‌refinery in ‌Russia’s Tatarstan region overnight (12:08) as part of its campaign to raise the Russian cost of continuing the war against Ukraine (10:08, 12:08).

13 people were reported dead with 39 injured after strikes on Nizhnekamsk in Russia’s Tatarstan region, including seven Uzbek citizens (14:54, 16:12).

Russia criticised the strike as a “terrorist attack” and opened a criminal investigation (11:08).

Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen and Italian prime minister Giorgia Meloni released a statement vowing to protect Europe’s “Christian cultural heritage,” ramping up their rhetoric on irregular migration (11:43).

Several European countries continued to battle the impact of extreme temperatures and droughts affecting key rivers, including the Rhine, the Danube, and the Vistula (14:27), as the UK and France brace for the fifth heatwave of the summer (15:43).

Estonia’s ruling coalition lost its majority after two MPs leaving their parties (15:52).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Separately, it is emerging that Russia is rolling out its own version of the Starlink satellite internet system ⁠faster than expected and plans to have nearly 300 satellites in orbit by 2027, according to a Ukrainian intelligence ⁠official quoted by Reuters.

SpaceX’s Starlink network, ⁠which operates ​in Ukraine but not Russia, has given Kyiv a major advantage in drone operations and battlefield communications.

Russian forces ⁠had been using grey-market Starlink terminals in Ukraine until Kyiv successfully lobbied SpaceX to disable them earlier this year, one of ⁠several factors that shifted battlefield momentum in Ukraine’s favour.

In an interview with ​Ukrainian media outlet RBC-Ukraine, Maj Gen ‌Vadym Skibitskyi said Russia ‌currently has 16 satellites in its Rassvet system.

“They have already begun launching ‌it much faster than originally planned,” said Skibitskyi, who is the deputy head of Ukraine’s GUR military intelligence service.

“Once Russia deploys a full satellite constellation, the system will operate like Starlink. Discussions are ​already underway on how to counter it,” he said.

We are now getting a bit more details from Russia about the attack on oil refinery in Tatarstan.

Nine ⁠out of 13 ⁠victims of ⁠the drone ​attack on Russia’s Nizhnekamsk ⁠on Monday were in ⁠a hostel at ​the ‌time ‌of the strike, ‌Russian news agency RIA reported, citing the press office of ‌the head of the ​region.

Seven Uzbek citizens were killed in ⁠the attack ​in Russia, the ​Uzbek ​consulate in ​Kazan ‌said earlier, Reuters said (14:54).

There also some political news from the Baltics, where Estonia’s governing coalition lost its majority today, after two MPs left their parties.

The move leaves the government with 50 seats in the 101-seat parliament.

Prime minister Kristen Michal acknowledged the impact of the resignations, saying his administration will need to “seek compromises” to function.

He said his government will “hold the line so that Estonia is securely defended, our prosperity turns to growth, nature remains clean, and our vision is future-oriented,” public broadcaster EER reported.

The next parliamentary election needs to be held by March 2027.

In other continental news, the UK and France are preparing for another – fifth! – heatwave of the summer, with temperatures in high 30s and up to 40C in parts of the two countries.

Germany will devote more resource to its anti-drone police unit, the government has said, just days after an explosives-laden unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was found in a strategically important airport.

Last week a UAV was defused after it was found near a Ukrainian cargo plane at Leipzig-Halle airport, a key hub for military equipment transports.

AFP reports interior minister Alexander Dobrindt labelled the incident a “hybrid attack scenario” potentially involving a “foreign power”. Berlin now plans to double personnel in the federal police anti-drone unit to 300.

AP is quoting Russian authorities who have issued an updated casualty count after the Ukrainian drone strike on the petroleum hub of Nizhnekamsk in Tatarstan. It is now said that it killed 13 people and wounded 75 others.

At the same time Reuters has issued a newsflash the Uzbek consulate has said that seven of those killed were Uzbek citizens.

The Ukrainian military said it hit an oil refinery in Nizhnekamsk, which is about 1,200 kilometers (750 miles) east of the Ukrainian border. The city has a population of about 240,0