Western Europe experienced its hottest June and July on record, according to data released Monday by the EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service.

The average temperature across the region for the two-month period reached 21.62 degrees Celsius (70.92 Fahrenheit), breaking the previous record set in 2022.

Copernicus said the figure reflected the "exceptional persistence of heat" in western Europe, where four heatwaveshave occurred since May.

The extreme temperatures have contributed to prolonged drought, major wildfires and new national temperature records across the region, as well as thousands of projected heat-related deaths.

Europe is the fastest-warming continent in the world, though temperatures varied considerably, with eastern Europe and Scandinavia experiencing much cooler conditions. For Europe as a whole, July was only the 11th warmest on record, with an average temperature of 20.49 degrees Celsius (68.88 Fahrenheit).

Conditions were drier than average across large parts of Europe in July, including Spain and other areas of the Iberian Peninsula, France, Germany, Austria, Hungary and the United Kingdom.

Ireland and parts of Iceland also experienced unusually dry conditions. Soil moisture in western Europe was significantly lower than in July 2022, when the region last experienced a severe drought.

To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

"Persistent high-pressure systems trapped heat over western Europe, the extreme temperatures also amplified widespread drought," said Samantha Burgess, strategic lead for climate at the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, which operates Copernicus.

"As soils dry out, they lose their ability to provide natural cooling, allowing heat to build more readily," she added.

"This is a clear example of how climate change is intensifying heat extremes, with heat and drought increasingly reinforcing one another."

River flows were also unusually low, with the Seine, Rhine and Danube among the hardest-hit waterways. Low water levels have disrupted transport, irrigation and energy production in several European countries.

The hot and dry conditions have also increased the risk of wildfires. France and Spain have battled particularly severe fires this summer, while serious blazes have also hit other parts of Europe, the northwestern United States and Canada.

Copernicus also reported a record for global sea surface temperatures in July.

The average temperature across oceans outside the polar regions reached 20.96 degrees Celsius (69.73 Fahrenheit), surpassing the previous July record of 20.89 degrees (69.60 Fahrenheit) set in 2023.

Record temperatures were measured along parts of the Atlantic coast and in the western Mediterranean, accompanied by intense marine heatwaves.

A developing El Niño in the equatorial Pacific also contributed to the record. Copernicus director Carlo Buontempo described the emerging El Niño as "very large" and potentially unprecedented in its strength.

El Nino is the warm phase of a natural climate cycle in the Pacific Ocean that can temporarily raise global temperatures and alter weather patterns around the world.

Globally, July was the joint second-warmest on record, tied with July 2024.

The average global surface air temperature was 16.90 degrees Celsius (62.42 Fahrenheit), around 1.47 degrees (2.65 Fahrenheit) above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial average for July. July 2023 remains the hottest on record, with an average temperature of 16.95 degrees (62.51 Fahrenheit).

So far, 2026 is the third-hottest year recorded globally, behind 2024 and 2025. Scientists say the strengthening El Niño could push temperatures higher later this year.

Buontempo said scientists expect a new global average temperature record to be set either later this year or in early 2027.

The past 11 years have been the hottest on record. "We have not seen a climate that warm during our lifetime, and very possibly our civilisation," Buontempo said.

"And the main driver for this warming — as we know — are the greenhouse gases," he added.

Oceans absorb most of the excess heat caused by human greenhouse gas emissions. Higher ocean temperatures can contribute to heavier rainfall and stronger storms and damage marine ecosystems, including coral reefs.

Copernicus bases its climate analyses on billions of measurements from satellites, ships, aircraft and weather stations around the world.

Don't let the algorithm hide the news. If you rely on our team for trusted reporting, please take a moment to select us as your Preferred Source on Google by clicking here and hitting the "star" or "preferred" button, so you'll always see our verified news first.