He added that his administration would no longer recommend hepatitis b, Covid-19 and influenza shots for children

Trump signs order attempting to override CDC vaccine schedule and break up MMR shots

In the Oval Office, Donald Trump has signed an executive order – that we flagged earlier – which would split up the measles, mumps and rubella vaccines.

“You should have five separate visits for vaccines rather than giving them all in the same day,” the president said.

He added that his administration would no longer recommend hepatitis b, Covid-19 and influenza shots for children.

“Decades ago, children received only a small fraction of the vaccines required today. In those times, people were much healthy, and of course, the high rates of autism now observed did not exist. So there’s a reason for such epidemic rates of autism, and we’re going to bring it back to much closer to where it was,” Trump said, despite the fact that there is no proven link between inoculations and an increased risk of autism.

Ironworker Brian Poindexter, a Democrat challenging the embattled congressman Max Miller in Ohio, said that his opponent “should be in prison, not in Congress” if the allegations of domestic abuse are true.

double quotation mark“It’s unfortunate that Miller has chosen to keep putting his ex-wife and her family through this nightmare in the public spotlight,” Poindexter said in a statement.

“But let me be perfectly clear. I got into this campaign to fight for my neighbors and for working people across this district,” he added. “That continues to be my north star. Our campaign’s doors are wide open to anyone - Democrat, Republican, or anything in between - who believes their representative should serve with honor and work for Ohioans, not for special interests and not for themselves. In November, we will win this race, and the people of the 7th District will finally have a representative who fights for them.”

Speaking to reporters earlier, Donald Trump said that the US retains the full capability to escalate actions against Iran if it chooses to do so.

“We have certainly that ability if we want to do that,” Trump said. “You’ll find out.”

Echoing remarks he wrote in a Truth Social post, Trump said Iran should pay for “the damage they’ve done over a 50-year period” instead of the US paying for the damage caused by the bombardment in Iran over the past five months.

“They ask for money for the damage that we’ve done. I said: ‘that’s a good idea. Well, we’re going to ask for money for the damage they’ve done over a 50-year period’,” he said. “If there’s damages to be paid, I think Iran should pay those damages.”

Donald Trump signed an executive order today that will involve splitting up the highly effective measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine into three single shots. The president also announced an overhaul to the childhood immunization schedule, scrapping recommendations for the hepatitis b, Covid-19 and influenza vaccines. He also suggested that the number of inoculations is linked to the rate of autism in the US, despite no proven link between the two.

Todd Blanche was officially sworn in as the new attorney general. Blanche, who has been serving as acting attorney general since April, was narrowly confirmed in the role by the Senate. Every Democrat rejected Blanche’s nomination.

Lawyers for David Hearn, the Olympian who was arrested for alleged property destruction of the reflecting pool before his charges were dropped, said that the Trump administration is “continuing to attack an innocent man”. This comes after Donald Trump said that Hearn was still guilty on Truth Social this weekend, despite the justice department dismissing all charges against him, and citing the “botched” renovation of the pool as the reason for the peeling lining.

Trump also said today that he is “demanding compensation from Iran” in future talks. This comes after Tehran tied compensation for the damage caused by the war launched by the US and Israel at the end of February to the reopening of the strategic strait of Hormuz. Trump said the matter of compensation “was never mentioned in any of our negotiations or meetings”, but Tehran has been demanding war damages from Washington since the early weeks of the war. Later he said that Iran should be responsible for “the damages and death caused to the people of Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, and Gaza”.

The Trump administration has repeatedly pointed to Europe as a model – arguing that EU countries do not require childhood vaccinations.

In reality, 12 EU nations mandate certain vaccines for children.

France, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria, Czechia, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia all require the measles vaccination for infants, for example.

As my colleague Melody Schreiber notes, while Trump’s latest order requires clinicians to offer three separate shots to protect against measles, mumps and rubella, there are actually no separately licensed vaccines for the dise