NEW DELHI: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday thanked the officials and security agencies for "handling" the student protest march against the alleged irregularities in the state recruitment examinations with "restraint, sensitivity and complete responsibility."Soren posted an open letter addressing the students on X and said that the government has listened to their concerns and assured them that their demands will be addressed with seriousness and sensitivity."You have raised your voice for your demands in a peaceful manner. In a democracy, it is your right to express your views, and it is the government's responsibility to respect your voice. The government has heard you. Our senior ministers have been in constant dialogue with you, and I assure you that action will be taken on your demands with utmost seriousness and sensitivity," he said.Further, Soren said that the government's objective is to eliminate shortcomings in the examination system."In the past few days, you have seen that the government has spared no one, no matter who the guilty party is. Our clear objective is to eliminate such shortcomings in the system so that no student has to face trouble in the future. We want to make the examination system more transparent, technology-enabled, secure and accountable. Your participation in this change is the most important," he said.In his post, Soren also appealed to the students not to fall into the trap of a political narrative."Our effort is that Jharkhand should not just discuss problems, but set a new example of solutions from here. I also understand that amid your peaceful movement, some people from the opposition have tried to spoil the atmosphere and mislead students for political gain. I appeal to all of you not to fall into the trap of any such political narrative," the chief minister said."You are the future of Jharkhand. It is not about ignoring your voice, but listening to it and resolving your problems - that is our responsibility. I will reiterate my point: let us resolve this issue together through dialogue and trust," he added.This comes after thousands of students participated in the 'Vidhan Sabha Gherao' march organised by the JPSC-JSSC Reform Morcha against alleged irregularities in recruitment examinations.During the march, several agitators and four policemen were injured in a clash near the Jharkhand assembly, as police used water cannons, tear gas and lathi-charged job aspirants protesting against alleged irregularities in recruitment examinations, officials said.Earlier on Sunday, Jharkhand students protesting irregularities in recruitment exams rejected the Hemant Soren-led government's claim that 98% of their demands had been accepted. They said only three of the 13 exams they wanted cancelled had been scrapped.The students accused the JMM-led government of "spreading lies" and said they would continue their peaceful protest.At a press conference, a student leader said, "The Jharkhand government is spreading lies that it fulfilled 98% of our demands. It cancelled only three of the 13 exams sought by us."The protesters are demanding a CBI probe into alleged irregularities in all recruitment exams conducted by the state. Student leader Ravindra Paswan accused the government of insisting on a CID probe, which he claimed was known for "cover-ups".Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.