Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Lok Sabha proceedings are under way on August 10, 2026. | Photo Credit: Sansad TV via ANI

The Lok Sabha on Monday (August 10, 2026) passed a Bill to establish a National Tribunals Commission to oversee the appointment of chairpersons and members of various tribunals, without a debate amid persistent Opposition protests demanding the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah.

The Opposition has been demanding that the Home Minister make a statement on the police crackdown on students during the July 20 protest in New Delhi against paper leaks.

The Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2026, introduced by Law Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, was passed by voice vote after Opposition members, who had given notices opposing its introduction, chose not to speak amid the din.

Once passed by both the Houses, the new law will repeal the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021.

The proposed commission, to be headquartered in New Delhi, will comprise a chairperson and four members — two judicial and two technical members. A retired Supreme Court judge or a retired Chief Justice of a High Court will be eligible to head the commission.

Speaking on the Bill, Mr. Meghwal said it sought to bring uniformity to the process of selection and appointment of tribunal members and would improve efficiency, transparency and independence.

He said the legislation did not alter the jurisdiction of any tribunal. The Minister described the measure as part of the government’s “reform express”.

The Bill comes against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s intervention in the functioning of tribunals. The court had struck down provisions of the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, holding that some of them were contrary to the principles of separation of powers and judicial independence and inconsistent with earlier judgments laying down standards for the appointment, tenure and functioning of tribunal members.

The court had also directed the establishment of an independent National Tribunals Commission with professional expertise, transparent selection procedures and an oversight mechanism for appointments.

The proposed legislation provides for the qualifications, selection and appointment of tribunal chairpersons and members, besides prescribing their salaries, allowances, tenure, resignation, removal and other service conditions.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.