A letter from Lahore for Abhijeet Dipke: We watch with wonder and longing

Journalist Aman Chopra says FIR filed against him for report from hospital amid Jharkhand protests

Business biography: How Jatinder Mehra, former Executive Director of SAIL, rebuilt its workforce

Rural jobs fall nearly 50% in first month of VB-G RAM G: Report

NALSAR students oppose inviting CJI for convocation over his response to police action on protesters

‘A lifetime of looking’: Arundhathi Subramanian on how Gieve Patel translated two Gujarati mystics

Nairobi is bulldozing the Kibera settlement for a housing project, but who really benefits?

The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to set up a central oversight body for appointing the chairpersons and members of the 16 tribunals in the country.

The body, named the National Tribunals Commission, will also review the performance of chairpersons and members of tribunals, as well as address complaints against them, according to the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2026.

The Union government will appoint the chairperson and members of the commission in consultation with the chief justice of India.

Introducing the bill in the Lower House, Union Law and Justice Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal said that the legislation has been proposed to “ensure independence, transparency and uniformity in the qualifications, appointment, terms and conditions of service of chairpersons and members of various tribunals”.

This would be in line with the Supreme Court’s ruling on November 19, which said that certain provisions of the Act violated the principles of separation of powers and judicial independence. The court had also directed that a National Tribunals Commission be set up.

Among the tribunals covered under the legislation are the Central Administrative Tribunal, National Green Tribunal, Armed Forces Tribunal, Securities Appellate Tribunal, Debts Recovery Tribunals, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal and Income-tax Appellate Tribunal.

The draft legislation states that the National Tribunals Commission will have five members. Apart from a chairperson, there will be two judicial and two technical members.

The chairperson will have a tenure of five years, or until they reach the age of 70, whichever is earlier, stated the bill. It added that the chairperson must be a former Supreme Court judge or a former chief justice of a High Court.