The agreement is a ‘great breakthrough’, the president says in response to media questions

Trump claims agreement for ‘complete disarmament’ of Hamas in Gaza but support uncertain

Saudi Arabia prepares sea and possible land offensive against Houthis

In further comments to Reuters, Ghazi Hamad said Hamas will hand over its weapons to the National Committee for the Administration of Gaza (NCAG), a new body established by the Board of Peace to oversee day-to-day affairs in the Palestinian territory.

He said disarmament will be contingent on the withdrawal of Israeli troops, and that the NCAG and international force must enter Gaza and dismantle Israeli-backed militias.

We are pausing this blog for the moment but our latest reporting can be found here:

On Thursday night, Donald Trump declared a breakthrough in negotiations over the disarmament of Hamas in Gaza and the withdrawal of Israeli forces, issues that have so far stalled the implementation of last October’s ceasefire, but Israel has yet to respond officially to the plan and government officials have voiced scepticism over the deal. In particular, there is confusion over what should happen first, Hamas to disarm or the IDF to withdraw.

Trump offered no clarity on the matter of the sequence of events at Friday’s cabinet meeting at Camp David. Asked if Israel was on board, Trump said: “We do have an understanding with Israel. Israel is very happy about it. They helped us and they’ve been very good about it.” There was also confusion over who Hamas would supposedly be handing over its heavy weapons too if the disarmament goes through – Trump said the Board of Peace, but officials announcing the deal said it would be Palestinian authorities.

But at the time of writing, there has still been no confirmation from the Israeli government that it has accepted the agreement. Benjamin Netanyahu has yet to comment publicly, while his far-right national security minister, Itamar Ben-Gvir, on Friday dismissed the plan as “unacceptable”. An Israeli official also told Reuters: “Israel demands the complete disarmament of Hamas, including ​the removal of weapons from Gaza and the complete demilitarisation of the strip as a precondition for ‌any process.” They said the plan under discussion did not “provide a satisfactory response to these demands and Israel conveyed its objections”. In similar vein, an Israeli source told AFP that Israel will not withdraw from the so-called Yellow Line in the Gaza Strip until Hamas undergoes “genuine disarmament”. Israel’s ambassador to the UN, Danny Danon, said “cosmetic solutions” wouldn’t work and Hamas had to “actually” disarm. He told CNN: “Disarmament means the weapons out of Gaza, they have no control of the weapons, and then we can move forward.”

Hamas, meanwhile, has said it agreed to the roadmap on condition that disarmament was carried out at the same time as Israeli withdrawal. Indeed, the group released a statement saying it remains committed to negotiations on the next phase of the ceasefire, but insisted that Israel must commit to “halting the killing and ending its attacks” and that “handing over heavy weapons is also conditional on Israel ending hostilities and withdrawal from Gaza”. A member of the Hamas negotiating team, Ghazi Hamad, told Al Jazeera: “We will not take any action regarding disarmament prior to Israel’s withdrawal from the strip.” Hamad told Agence France-Presse in a separate interview: “The agreement contains a clear provision stating that Israel must commit to and implement its obligations. If Israel does not implement the agreement, neither will we.”

Trump also said the US would be hitting Iran “very hard” when asked by reporters what Tehran can expect in the next few weeks. “At some point they’re going to say, ‘We just can’t take it anymore,’” he added. Trump also said he was “losing faith” in negotiations with Tehran, and implied, as he has done in the past, that Iranian negotiators were making him “angry” by saying one thing privately and another publicly. “They always want to talk, but they break their word so often … they just make me angry,” the US president said. “I’m losing faith in them because they do lie and do, they do misrepresent.”

The Pentagon is considering reversing about half the staff cuts it made to a program dedicated to preventing wartime civilian casualties, the Atlantic reports, as the US military reckons with the human cost of its war against Iran – particularly the strike on a girls’ elementary school in Minab on the first day of the war that killed at least 168 people, most of them children.

After US defence secretary Pete Hegseth fired or reassigned almost all of the staff working on the program, the potential reversal now awaits his signature, according to the magazine.

Per the Atlantic’s report, “a Pentagon inspector-general report this spring found that the [US defence] department’s deep cuts in civilian-harm protections may have violated laws designed to safe