Fifa says that "nobody is selling football" as it vowed to continue with the controversial plan to sell stakes in its competitions to private investors.

Uefa - the body that governs European football and has 55 members - voted on Thursday to boycott World Cups if the plan proceeded.

Concacaf, which governs football in North and Central America and hosted this year's World Cup, said its 41 member associations also "rejected" the proposal made by Fifa president Gianni Infantino.

Fifa oversees world football and Infantino would need 106 of its 211 members to vote in favour for the proposal to go through. Uefa and Concacaf members combined make up 90 of those votes - six Concacaf members are not Fifa members.

In a statement released on Friday, Fifa claimed the consultation process had been "disrupted by incorrect media reports".

"We respect the feedback and concern aired in public and reaffirm our commitment to an open and democratic consultation," the statement read.

"We will proceed with this consultation process to ensure that each MA (member association) has the ability to express its vote based on facts.

"Nobody is selling football. This is not something Fifa would ever entertain."

Is Infantino finished? Could Uefa boycott World Cup? What happens now?

Fifa wants to create a commercial subsidiary to run its main events, including its World Cups, and external investors will be able to buy stakes in it.

It said it would "invite third parties to make minority, non-controlling investments" in a new subsidiary - Fifa Forward Enterprise (FFE).

In a 25-page document created by investment bank JP Morgan, it is made clear that Fifa's tournaments will expand to hit an estimated increased pay-out of 24m euros per member association in the 2035-2039 cycle.

It mentions "new business initiatives" and "attracting top talent with incentive-driven compensation".

The World Cup is described in it as the "most widely viewed" sporting event but Fifa, by contrast, is said to be "under-monetised".

On Friday, Fifa said FFE had been proposed "to ensure all Fifa member associations have the opportunity to take meaningful ownership of the commercial opportunity of football in their respective countries".

"This does not come at the cost of either the spirit or the governance of Fifa or football itself," it added.

Infantino previously wrote to Fifa members saying they will receive $40m (£30m) if they back his controversial proposal. He set a deadline of 19 September for federations to accept his plans if they want to access an initial $20m (£15m).

However, Uefa has accused Fifa of using football "to enrich themselves and their friends".

If approval is granted, Fifa says Thrive Eternal is expected to lead the proposed investor group for FFE.

Thrive is an American venture capital firm founded by Joshua Kushner - the brother of US President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared.

Courting controversy and befriending Trump - the story of Fifa boss Infantino

Uefa and Concacaf have led the opposition to Infantino's plan.

"The World Cup cannot be treated as an investment product," Uefa's statement on Thursday read.

"It is one of football's greatest sporting legacies. It has been built over generations by players, national teams and supporters across every continent.

"No part of it should ever be surrendered to private investors. The World Cup is not for sale.

"This is not merely a profound failure of leadership, but an abdication of Fifa's duty as the custodian of world football."

Concacaf said its members "expressed deep concerns about the lack of due process surrounding the proposal" and the "artificially short deadline imposed".

It also questioned the need for private investment after what Fifa claimed was the most profitable World Cup in history.

The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) said that it is "deeply concerned that Fifa's unilateral actions appear to undermine the very foundations of continental football".

The AFC also said it was "unacceptable" that it had not been consulted before the proposal was publicly announced, nor provided with "detailed governance, financial or legal analysis".

The governing body overseeing football in South America, Conmebol, is yet to publicly comment on the proposals. The governing bodies in Africa (CAF) and Oceania (OFC) have said they will discuss Fifa's plan in August.

Chelsea manager and 2010 World Cup winner Xabi Alonso was asked about the situation during his side's pre-season tour of Australia.

"I think that football has to be for the people, not in private hands and I think that the way we love it is this way and we have seen a great World Cup and it's good to defend the interests of all the people," he said.

"Hopefully it won't happen and we will do it - we will keep the game as attractive and as authentic as we like it and that's why it creates these emotions, these passions."

It feels as though no-one who matters knows how this situation is going to play out jus