Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Delhi police family members share their pain, fear and experience during the CJP protest, when their parents got injured during a press conference at the Constitutional Club in New Delhi on July 31, 2026. | Photo Credit: Sushil Kumar Verma

Family members of four Delhi Police personnel who were injured during the crackdown on the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP)-led march to Parliament on July 20, demanding the resignation of then Education Minister Dhrmendra Pradhan, on Friday (July 31, 2026) called for a discussion in Parliament on the injuries suffered by the policemen on duty. They said the public discourse so far has been “one-sided”.

Addressing a press conference at the Constitution Club, the family members—the wives of an ACP and an ASI, and the children of two injured police officers—took turns to recount what had transpired that day and said that “their side of the story” of the June 20 violence needed to be heard.

The families presented photographs of injured and bleeding police personnel through a slideshow, that claimed that more than 250 police personnel were injured in the violence, while over 110 barricades, 300 body protectors, 350 helmets, 20 loudhailers, 10 hand-held metal detectors and one X-ray baggage scanner were damaged, with more than 25 government vehicles and private property vandalised.

They alleged that several anti-social elements had joined the students who attacked the policemen.

The wife of an ASI who sustained injuries during the violence said, “Students should be released after their records are verified, but the miscreants who attempted to disrupt the students’ protest, tarnish its image and undermine the dignity of Parliament should be held accountable for their actions and should not be spared.”

A Delhi University student whose father, a sub-inspector, was injured in the clashes, said he had served for 15 years as a Marine Commando in the Indian Navy before joining the police. She said that her father returned home with his uniform soaked in blood, but when she opened social media, he had already been declared a criminal.

Another family member of an injured ACP said, “Whenever I go online, I see videos portraying only the police as criminals. There is no discussion, even in Parliament, about the police personnel who were injured. We only want our side to be heard.”

Several questions have been raised over the alleged use of excessive force against protesters during the July 20 march. Videos circulating on social media name and identify some of the men in uniform using excessive force, while some clips also show police personnel in plain clothes wielding batons.

On July 28, the Supreme Court observed that it would consider constituting a high-powered investigating team to conduct a “thorough, fair and independent” inquiry into allegations of police excesses during the recent student protests in Delhi.

India / parliament / Delhi / police / Cockroach Janta Party / demonstration / students

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.