Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

New Delh The Congress on Friday (July 31, 2026) took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his "forgive children" video message and said that while the country was asking the PM to apologise, he had instead "forgiven the country".

Mr. Modi on Friday (July 31, 2026) said he and even his late mother were subjected to abusive language at Jantar Mantar during the protests over NEET irregularities, but asserted that dragging such "misguided children" into court would not resolve the problem and hence, he wanted to forgive them.

Tagging the PM's video and post, Congress' media and publicity department head Pawan Khera said in a post on X in Hindi, "Listen to this. The country is asking him to apologise, yet he has forgiven the country." In another late-night video message released on Instagram, the Prime Minister said he could understand the anguish prevailing in society, but stressed that this was the time to embrace the youth and guide them on the right path.

लो कर लो बात। देश इनसे माफ़ी मांगने को कह रहा है, इन्होंने देश को माफ़ कर दिया। https://t.co/p9JIdnokmp

"Not only was I subjected to abusive language at Jantar Mantar, but even my late mother was abused there. But abuses never solve anything; let's guide the misguided," he said.

Mr. Modi described the students as "misguided children" and said punishing them or making them go through court proceedings will not solve the problem.

"I want to forgive them. People make mistakes, but this is a cultural shock that our daughters are using such abusive language. We must forgive our youth who were misguided; after all, they are our children. It's our duty to show them the right path," he said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.