NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday night shared a video carrying a message against abusive language and hate, saying that "abuses never solve anything", amid the controversy over alleged derogatory remarks made against him by a Noida woman during a protest in Delhi.Sharing the video on X, PM Modi wrote, "Abuses never solve anything. Let’s guide the misguided. Let’s work together. Let’s work for Bharat."The post comes a day after Ruchika Singh, a 25-year-old woman from Noida, was booked for allegedly making abusive and objectionable remarks against the PM Modi during student protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.In the video, PM Modi also spoke about the government's efforts to strengthen India's examination system following Parliament's passage of a stringent anti-paper leak law."Friends, we are continuously taking one step after another to build a trustworthy examination system. Whether it is creating fast-track mechanisms or incorporating suggestions from the states, we are working in that direction."The Prime Minister said paper leaks had affected governments across the country for decades and jeopardised the future of students."For several decades, every state government and every central government has faced the challenge of paper leaks. Because of this, the future of our children has also been put at risk."He said reforming the education system and expanding the use of technology had become essential to tackle the menace."Keeping all this in mind, it has become essential to reform the education system across the country, both in the states and at the Centre. The extensive use of technology has become a necessity."PM Modi reiterated that the government would act firmly against those involved in paper leak rackets."At the same time, paper leak mafias, gangs involved in leaking examination papers and gangs that play with the future of the nation's children will not be spared. Strict laws are also necessary."Referring to the legislation recently passed by Parliament, he said:"We introduced a Bill in Parliament and, as I had promised you, over the past two days members of both Houses discussed it in detail. Today, both Houses have passed this Bill containing stringent legal provisions."PM Modi described the legislation as a major step towards restoring confidence in the examination system."With this, one important step has been completed towards creating a trustworthy examination system. Our work will continue. We will not allow such a situation to continue for long."Concluding his message, PM Modi urged citizens to work together towards building a developed India."With this confidence, friends, let us all move forward shoulder to shoulder to fulfil the dream of a developed India. Thank you very much."Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.