Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

One of the two labourers has been transported to GMC Hospital in Anantnag following the suspected terrorist attack on July 31, 2026. | Photo Credit: Special Arrangement

Suspected terrorists shot dead a migrant worker and injured another in a targeted attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Friday evening (July 31, 2026). It is the second targeted attack in the region since July 22, 2026.

A senior police officer told The Hindu that two workers were fired upon in Kilam. “One died and another was being operated,” said the officer.

Officials said the injured person was taken to the Government Medical College, Anantnag, “for advanced treatment”.

Preliminary reports suggested that suspected terrorists fired at the two workers after sundown and fled the spot. Security forces have cordoned off the attack site and a search operation was on to trace the attackers.

Official sources said both the labourers were from Chhattisgarh and worked at a brick kiln.

J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinhasaid he spoke with J&K Director General of Police Nalin Prabhat and top security officials “following the brutal terrorist attack in Kulgam in which a labourer from Chhattisgarh was killed”.

“I strongly condemn this cowardly act. I have directed our security forces to step up their operations and eliminate the terrorists. The J&K administration and the entire nation stand with the families,” he said.

The attack evoked strong condemnation from the BJP and regional parties including J&K Apni Party and Peoples Democratic Party. “Unequivocally condemn the killing. They work themselves to the bone far away from home only to feed their families,” said PDP president Mehbooba Mufti.

कश्मीर के कुलगाम में हुए कायराना आतंकी हमले में छत्तीसगढ़ के एक श्रमिक की दुखद मृत्यु एवं एक श्रमिक के घायल होने की खबर अत्यंत पीड़ादायक है।घायल श्रमिक का स्थानीय अस्पताल में समुचित इलाज जारी है। अधिकारियों को इस संदर्भ में आवश्यक निर्देश दिए गए हैं।छत्तीसगढ़ सरकार पीड़ित…

J&K Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari termed the incident as “a deeply tragic and inhuman act of violence and terrorism”. He said: “Such tragic incidents shake us all. Those behind this heinous crime must be beasts to have attacked two innocent people who were here only to earn a livelihood for their families back home. I am sure the security agencies will soon nab the perpetrators so that they are brought to justice.”

BJP J&K spokesperson Altaf Thakur described the incident as a “cowardly, barbaric and inhuman act” that is “aimed at disrupting the prevailing atmosphere of peace and normalcy in J&K.”

“Such barbaric acts are an assault on humanity and on the centuries-old traditions of brotherhood and hospitality for which Kashmir is known,” he said.

Mr. Thakur said the perpetrators and those supporting them must be brought to justice without delay. “I urge the police leadership and security agencies to conduct a thorough investigation, identify every terrorist involved in this dastardly attack, dismantle the entire network behind the crime and ensure that the perpetrators face the strictest punishment under the law,” he added.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.