Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Britain's Prime Minister Andy Burnham. File | Photo Credit: AP

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart, Andy Burnham, spoke on the telephone on Friday (July 31, 2026), agreeing to cooperate closely on several sectors and “fully harness” the recently operationalised trade agreement between New Delhi and London, as per the government.

“We agreed to work together across sectors such as technology, innovation, defence, security, clean energy, education and people-to-people ties and take the India-U.K. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership to new heights,” Mr. Modi wrote on social media site X.

Delighted to speak with Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Andy Burnham. Congratulated him on assuming office and conveyed my best wishes for a successful tenure.We agreed to work together across sectors such as technology, innovation, defence, security, clean energy,…

“We will also collaborate closely to fully harness the trade and investment opportunities,” he added. The trade deal was operationalised on July 15, during the final few days of Keir Starmer’s two years in office.

Mr. Burnham discussed the strength of the relationship and the significance it had on local communities in Britain, as per a Downing Street spokesperson.

“The Prime Minister [Mr. Burnham] praised the contribution Indian communities in the U.K. make to the fabric of U.K. society, with Prime Minister Modi noting the links between the two leaders’ own home cities of Manchester and Ahmedabad, in Gujarat, which he called the ‘Manchester of India’, “the spokesperson said. Mr. Burnham was, until recently, the mayor of Greater Manchester - which is home to a sizeable Indian-origin population.

Mr. Burnham conveyed to the Prime Minister that he was personally committed to the U.K.-India Technology Security Initiative (TSI), according to the Downing Street readout. The TSI was launched in July 2024 as a platform to enhance cooperation in AI, health-tech, semiconductors, critical minerals and so forth.

Both the Prime Ministers noted the potential to work together in AI, Downing Street said. Mr. Burnham has officially elevated the government’s AI strategy by appointing a cabinet minister to head AI policy. The Minister, Indian-born Kanishka Narayan, was previously operating at the level of a Minister of State in the Starmer administration.

The two men also discussed the U.S.-Iran war, agreeing to work “closely together” towards de-escalation and reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, Downing Street said.

United Kingdom / diplomacy / international relations / Narendra Modi

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.