NEW DELHI: India on Friday expressed deep concern over the escalating conflict in West Asia, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar speaking to his Iranian counterpart Abbas Araghchi and urging restraint amid growing regional tensions.In a post on X after the conversation, Jaishankar said he had a "tele-conversation" with Araghchi and reiterated India's concerns over the deteriorating security situation. "Conveyed our deep concerns at the ongoing hostilities in the region," he wrote.Jaishankar also stressed the need to protect commercial shipping and seafarers as the conflict increasingly threatens key maritime routes. "Strongly urged that attacks on commercial shipping and seafarers be avoided under any circumstance. India condemns any such attack by any party," he said.The external affairs minister added that he was briefed on Tehran's position during the call. "Was apprised of Iran’s perspective of current developments and discussions underway. India is always supportive of dialogue and diplomacy," Jaishankar wrote.The conversation came as tensions between Iran and the United States intensified, with Tehran claiming fresh strikes on American military facilities in Kuwait.According to Iranian state media, the Iranian army carried out drone attacks on the US-operated Ahmad al-Jaber Air Base as part of the 27th phase of Operation Lightning. Tehran said the operation was launched in response to a recent US strike on a residential home on Qeshm Island, alleging that it targeted military infrastructure including aircraft shelters, satellite communication systems and equipment warehouses.Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) separately claimed responsibility for strikes on the US-operated Ali Al Salem airbase in Kuwait, saying it had destroyed drone hangars and a fuel storage facility. The IRGC also vowed to continue military operations until US forces leave the region.The United States, however, rejected Iran's claims. US Central Command (CENTCOM) said no American aircraft had been damaged in the attacks and that all missiles and drones had either been intercepted or failed to reach their intended targets.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.