Police say man taken to hospital and mayor says child physically unharmed as he condemns ‘unconscionable’ act

A US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent shot and injured a man in New York City on Thursday afternoon during an enforcement operation, federal officials said.

The man was conscious and hospitalized, authorities said, and the shooting quickly sparked angry protests from local residents and elected officials in the neighborhood.

Early reports indicated that agents had surrounded the man and a five-year-old child in his car in a residential area before firing multiple rounds, the city’s mayor, Zohran Mamdani, said in a statement on Thursday evening. The child was physically unharmed, he said.

“I have been on ​the phone with President Trump and [Homeland Security] secretary Mullin negotiating ‌the release of the man ICE agents ‌shot. Those negotiations were unsuccessful,” Mamdani told a press conference. He demanded from the Trump ‌administration that ICE stop its enforcement actions in New York City, he said.

The shooting took place at roughly 4pm in the Marble Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, according to the New York police department (NYPD).

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) said in a statement on social media that ICE officers were conducting an operation targeting an undocumented man from the Dominican Republic. The statement did not explain what led to the shooting, saying: “During the incident, an ICE officer discharged his weapon and the criminal illegal alien was injured.”

The extent of the man’s injuries was unknown. The department’s statement alleged that the man had “associations” with a gang and prior criminal convictions, but DHS did not name the man or provide evidence of his background. The department has previously faced backlash for falsely accusing immigrants of being gang members after they were shot by agents.

DHS spokespeople did not immediately respond to questions about what led to the shooting, the extent of the man’s injuries, or the reports that a five-year-old was in the car during the shooting.

New York’s police commissioner, Jessica Tisch, said the NYPD had located the child with a family member after a wellness check. She alleged the man ​– identified as a 28-year-old – had been arrested twice in New York City in 2023 and 2025.

Cellphone video published by the New York Times appeared to show the immediate aftermath of the shooting, with an agent in a yellow vest holding what appeared to be an assault rifle while talking on the phone. The newspaper said other witness video appeared to show several agents in the middle of the street in the aftermath, with one armed and another restraining a man on the ground.

One witness told the City Reporter, a local news outlet, that she saw a man bleeding on the ground in front of a car and observed an agent holding a small child. Videos also showed bullet holes in the windshield of an SUV, NY1 reported.

Mamdani expressed outrage in an earlier post on X, saying: “I will not stand by while ICE agents terrorize our communities. Our thoughts are with the injured New Yorker and his family tonight. We are praying for his recovery. Get ICE out of our neighborhoods. Get ICE out of our hospitals. Get ICE off our streets. Get ICE away from our children.”

Protesters began to gather in the area soon after the shooting, with some demonstrators holding signs saying, “Jail all killer ICE agents” and “Leave our neighbors alone”.

Hands Off NYC and the New York Immigration Coalition, two local groups, held an emergency press conference in the area where elected officials and organizers expressed outrage and decried ICE’s ongoing presence in the neighborhood.

“ICE, get the fuck out of our neighborhood,” shouted Vanessa Gibson, Bronx borough president. “I’m angry that we have to be here … We are a working-class community. We don’t deserve this type of treatment from the White House.” She encouraged the crowd to get involved in opposing ICE, saying: “There are more of us than there are of them. I want this to be a moment that we turn into a movement.”

Jumaane Williams, the city’s elected public advocate, said “fuck ICE” and “fuck Trump”, adding: “It is our time to stand up. Those of us who have more privilege – we must take more risk to protect those who don’t.”

New Yorkers of all ages flowed into the streets from the nearby 1 train, and protesters soon also gathered at a local hospital where the man shot by ICE was reported to be receiving treatment. Outside the hospital, NYPD set up barricades and protesters quickly clashed with police officers in a chaotic scene.

Demonstrators banged drums and shouted, “Shut it down,” and “ICE out!” as cars driving by honked in support.

Standing outside the hospital, Murad Awawdeh, the president of the New York Immigration Coalition, told the Guardian he wanted to see an independent investigation into the shooting led by New York officials. He also called on DHS to release footage 