Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

Tropical Storm Isaias intensified into a hurricane overnight and is forecast to make landfall as early as tomorrow night near the Alabama Gulf Coast and the Florida Panhandle. Coastal communities in its path are preparing for high winds and flooding by stocking up on supplies to board up windows and gather sandbags. Residents who live farther inland are also preparing for inches of rain and wind.

The Plains oil refinery is seen on March 10, 2022 in Mobile, Alabama. Brandon Bell/Getty Images hide caption

Republicans currently have a slim majority in the House, holding 218 seats to the Democrats' 214. With less than a month until Election Day, an NPR analysis of both parties' campaigns highlights key races that will shape control of the House in 2027. The Cook Political Report lists 43 competitive districts, including 22 toss-ups. But both parties are pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into shaping a much larger electoral landscape.

The Davidson County Chancery Court in Nashville has ordered Tennessee prison officials to preserve all evidence related to the botched lethal injection of Christa Pike last week. This includes log books, medical waste and all communications from officials involved in the execution attempt. The court granted Pike's attorneys "liberal access" to her, requiring prison officials to respond to requests for in-person visits within two hours. Pike's attorneys said that she is now awake, speaking and receiving critical medical care after several days of unconsciousness.

CNN, MS NOW and Politico are in federal court today to argue that Trump is infringing on their constitutional rights by blocking their access to the White House. The news outlets say that they have the right to determine how, what and where they can cover the president at any given time. A judge last month issued a temporary restraining order preventing the Trump administration from barring the outlets from the White House while the court considered the lawsuit.

by Cooper Katz McKim, The Indicator from Planet Money associate producer

Diesel fuel has been pricier than regular gasoline, with a few exceptions, since 2004 David Zalubowski/AP Photo/David Zalubowski/AP hide caption

The cost of diesel fuel is breaking records left and right. The previous record was $5.85/gallon. A few weeks ago, it hit $6.53/gallon. If I drove a diesel car, I might stay home.

At the Indicator, we've been watching whether President Trump would try to lower prices by banning exports of diesel fuel. He did not do that, though he did make diesel cheaper by expanding the use of tax-exempt diesel for highway vehicles through the end of the year. Still, I wondered why diesel prices are so consistently higher than regular gas.

We have a weekly newsletter at The Indicator where we track what's driving the economy and how it affects your life. It was the right platform to ask: Is diesel fuel inherently more expensive than regular gas?

The answer: NO! Before 2004, diesel was actually cheaper. But step by step, the price got higher.

The first domino to fall: taxes. In 1993, the federal excise tax on diesel increased to 24.4 cents, 6 cents more than the regular gas tax.

Soon after, demand for diesel began to skyrocket. China and India were ramping up industrialization, agriculture and new infrastructure to new levels. The world saw diesel vehicles take off.

In the U.S., the last major domino to fall was air quality standards. In 2006, diesel fuel needed to have less sulfur, which required new — and more expensive — refining and distribution methods.

One lesson that stuck with me is how diesel is essential for the modern economy. It's needed in shipping, long-haul trucking, mining and backup generators. Whether the cost is high or low, the demand is there. Regular gasoline? Demand is a little squishier.

You can check out the full segment here. And if you liked this story, subscribe to The Indicator newsletter here!

Creative collage of man, professional athlete, runner isolated over black background. Glitch and duotine effect. Concept of art, sport, motivation, action. Copy space for ad Anton Vierietin/Getty Images/iStockphoto hide caption

Are you feeling nervous about facing a high-stakes event, such as a race or a job interview? Well, get ready to face those challenges head-on with the help of psychologist Cindra Kamphoff, the author of The Confidence Habit: 7 Core Practices to Transform Self-Doubt into Self-Belief. She shared with Life Kit some of her creative strategies for managing fear and negativity to overcome anxiety and build confidence before, during and after big tasks.

For more advice on how to beat performance anxiety, listen to this episode of NPR's Life Kit. Subscribe to the Life Kit newsletter for expert advice on love, money, relationships