Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Lok Sabha LoP Rahul Gandhi, along with INDIA bloc MPs at Rajghat as the Opposition steps protests against CEC Gyanesh Kumar, on October 8, 2026. | Photo Credit: Shashi Shekhar Kashyap

The INDIA bloc will continue its protest on Friday (October 9, 2026) and is likely to march towards Rashtrapati Bhavan after assembling at Parliament House in the morning. Senior leaders, including Mamata Banerjee, may join the march, even though President Droupadi Murmu has not yet given an appointment. Following two days of face-offs with the Delhi Police, the Opposition leaders were allowed to hold a peaceful protest at Rajghat on Thursday (October 8, 2026) without being prevented from reaching there.

Also read | Opposition leaders ‘pray’ at Rajghat for government to ‘get wisdom’ to remove CEC

Ahead of the October 10 protest in Delhi, several groups, including the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP), on Thursday (October 8, 2026) alleged that protesters were being picked up from across the country. CJP co-convener Ashutosh Ranka said Deepak Baliyan, the organisation’s co-in-charge, had been detained in Rajasthan. He claimed that thousands of volunteers had been detained in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The Students’ Federation of India (SFI) also alleged that police personnel had been visiting activists’ homes and intimidating their families to prevent them from travelling to Delhi.

Analysis | The Rahul Gandhi show and the Congress’s INDIA bloc dilemma

In Delhi, the police has been holding meetings in colleges, universities, and PG accommodations to ask students and citizens not to join the protest. Officials said that joining the unsanctioned protest would disrupt law and order in the New Delhi area. Police officials visited local mosques and market places in Old Delhi and announced that Section 163 of BNSS is in place in the New Delhi area, requesting citizens to not participate in the protest.

The Delhi High Court on Friday (October 9, 2026) refused to grant an urgent hearing on a plea of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) seeking permission to protest against Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar at Jantar Mantar over alleged irregularities in the SIR exercise.

The plea was first mentioned on Thursday (October 8, 2026). On Friday (October 9, 2026), it was mentioned again, but not listed.

A bench of Acting Chief Justice Nitin Wasudeo Sambre and Justice Sanjay Sharma refused to list the matter despite the counsel’s urging.

“What is the urgency today? It will be listed on Monday (October 12, 2026),” the Bench said.

“The Government of India is adopting heinous means to prevent students and young people from reaching the national capital. Interestingly, the Delhi Police is very active and exuberant. They are even visiting the mosque exhorting them not to attend the protest. It’s a veiled threat at the Muslim community,” says CPI(M) MP John Brittas.

INDIA bloc MPs will meet at the Central Hall of the Samvidhan Sadan at 3 p.m. on Friday (October 9, 2026) and could proceed for another protest against “vote chori”, sources said.

They also said the INDIA bloc has sought time from President Droupadi Murmu, and if they do not get an appointment, “all options are on the table”.

The sources said Seva Teerth, Rashtrapati Bhawan, Vice-President’s residence, and the residences of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah could be the likely options for the venue for the protests against Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar and the Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of voter rolls.

A day before the CJP is to mount a massive agitation at Jantar Mantar, around 200 people gathered in central Delhi on Friday (October 9, 2026) to denounce alleged assault on police and abusive words used for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at protests.

The demonstrators gathered at Janpath at the call of the ‘Lal Hit Janata Party’, an outfit apparently named after a popular insect-control brand in a satirical counter to the Cockroach Janata Party (CJP).

“Even if someone abuses an outsider, we tend to stop them. The Prime Minister is part of our own family, and using such language against him is unacceptable. Abusing our heroes, jawans and Delhi Police personnel must stop, and strict action should be taken against those responsible,” Ayan Bhatnagar, who represented the outfit, said.

Police officials visited local mosques and market places in Old Delhi and announced that Section 163 of BNSS is in place in the New Delhi area, requesting citizens to not participate in the protest.

The Congress on Friday (October 9, 2026) took a swipe at the Modi government over the heavy security personnel deployment ahead of the Cockroach Janata Party’s October 10 protest in New Delhi, saying it shows the level of “panic and nervousness” after four days of unr