Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

AICC General Secretary In-charge of Communication, Publicity and Media, Jairam Ramesh. | Photo Credit: ANI

Attacking the government over the U.S. government's actions affecting Indian IT professionals, the Congress on Friday (October 9, 2026) said India has a number of options to retaliate but a "thoroughly compromised" Prime Minister Narendra Modi, now under "siege" on "GyaneshGate", will not do so.

The Opposition party also said that the appeasement of bullies never pays.

In a post on X, Congress general secretary in-charge of communications Jairam Ramesh said, "That appeasement of bullies never pays is once again proven by the U.S. government’s actions yesterday targeted directly against Indian IT professionals."

This has come shortly after the Modi government went out of its way to please U.S. President Donald Trump by imposing UPI MDR charges that will clearly and directly benefit American companies, Mr. Ramesh claimed.

"India has a number of options to retaliate under laws already passed by Parliament like the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 and its Rules. But a thoroughly compromised PM now under siege on GyaneshGate will not do so," the Congress leader said in a reference to the Opposition's push for Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar's resignation over alleged SIR irregularities.

The U.S. on Thursday (October 8, 2026) suspended eight IT firms, including Microsoft, Tata, Infosys and Wipro, from a programme to apply for green cards for foreign workers, contending that the practice has shut out Americans from the job market.

The announcement was made by Vice President J. D. Vance, Labour Secretary Keith Sonderling, and Attorney General Todd Blanche as part of the action under the aegis of the U.S. Anti-Fraud Task Force.

"I am hereby suspending from the Permanent Labour Certification Programme some of the largest IT outsourcing firms in the world, Cognizant, Infosys, Tata, Wipro, HCL, and Capgemini," Mr. Sonderling said.

He said the Department of Labour is also suspending Microsoft and Adobe from the programme due to multiple active federal investigations.

"There has been no company in the United States, unfortunately, that has abused this system more than Microsoft," Mr. Vance said.

"Microsoft laid off 6,000 American workers in 2025 after certifying that it could not find qualified American employees yet the company was approved for more than 6,000 H-1Bs and filed 3,682 PERM applications, including nearly 1,000 applications for the same positions as the laid off American workers, the Vice President said.

Indian professionals account for over 70% of all approved H-1B petitions annually.

The Vice President referred to foreign workers hired on H1-B visas as foreign indentured servants and the companies using the programme as visa mills.

Mr. Vance also announced an investigation into the J-1 visa programme for research scholars utilised by nine major universities, including Yale, Harvard, Stanford and Caltech.

The J-1 programme allows foreign nationals to enter the U.S. as exchange visitors for activities, including research, teaching, study and specialised professional work.

politics / Narendra Modi / national government / Indian National Congress

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.