Activist Umar Khalid wins international human rights defender award

‘Any dissent termed anti-national’: Ex-bureaucrats urge civil servants to uphold Constitution values

Maharashtra to cut water supply by 10% amid drought, El Niño concerns

Onions, sugar, rice: Why India’s food staples have gotten costly

‘Why are they stealing our votes?’: Bengaluru protest brings frustration with SIR to the fore

‘Eyes’ review: A clear-eyed look at a culture of stalking and abuse

Infosys, Tata, Wipro among Indian IT firms suspended from US green card programme

Why does Hindutva hate Durga Puja being called the ‘autumn festival’?

How Netanyahu and Modi turn security failures into political weapons

The United States on Thursday suspended information technology companies Cognizant, Infosys, Tata, Wipro, HCL, Capgemini, Microsoft and Adobe from the Permanent Labor Certification Programme. The process allows employers to sponsor foreign workers, including H-1B visa holders, for employment-based green cards.

The action does not cancel existing H-1B visas held by employees of these companies. Permanent Labor Certification is a separate process that employers must complete before filing petitions for most employment-based green cards. Under the programme, employers must establish that there are no qualified, willing and available US workers for a particular job.

A green card allows a foreign citizen to live and work permanently in the US. H-1B visas allow companies in the US to temporarily employ foreign workers for special occupations.

The move is part of a broader immigration crackdown under President Donald Trump, whose second term began in January 2025.

On Thursday, US Labor Secretary Keith Sonderling said that the Department of Labor would “not accept any new or process any pending Permanent Labor Certification applications” involving the companies.

.@Sonderling47: "I am hereby suspending from the Permanent Labor Certification Program some of the largest IT outsourcing firms in the world — Cognizant, Infosys, Tata, Wipro, HCL, and Capgemini — and also, due to multiple active federal investigations, @USDOL is suspending… https://t.co/ENyAFHSo93 pic.twitter.com/DZXcRMp22L

Sonderling alleged that the companies “alone have requested almost three million foreign workers, they have received over 230,000 H-1B visa approval and over 100,000 Permanent Labor Certifications…that is hundreds of thousands of jobs that were taken from American workers”.

He alleged that Cognizant, Infosys, Tata, Wipro, HCL and Capgemini had “enabled this abuse” and said that they had been suspended from the programme because of “ongoing criminal investigations”.

Microsoft and Adobe were also suspended from the programme because of “multiple active federal investigations”, he added.

Vice-President JD Vance, who announced the new measures with Sonderling, said that the H-1B programme was meant to allow US companies to hire “the best of the best from outside the United States of America for positions that are completely impossible to fill with American workers”.

“Unfortunately, the programme has become rife with fraud,” Vance said.

Over the past few years, Indians have constituted the majority of H-1B visa holders. Indians comprised 71% of all H-1B visas issued by the US in the financial year 2023-’24.

As part of the Trump administration’s crackdown on immigration, in August 2025, it said that it was reviewing more than 55 million persons who had valid visas for any violations that could lead to them being deported.

Other directives include deporting undocumented migrants using military aircraft, imposing additional security measures on foreign students applying to American educational institutes, and proposing new rules to limit the duration of visas for students and journalists.

Also read: US is losing immigrant tech talent due to H-1B visa uncertainty