The counting of votes for the Nandigram by-elections is underway by the Election Commission of India. As per early trends from ECI, Hasirani Rath, the candidate fielded by the BJP, is in the lead.

Nandigram, which is in West Bengal's East Midnapore, went to the polls on October 6 and saw a turnout of 80.89 per cent. The seat fell vacant after Chief Minister Suvendu Adhikari, who won from both Nandigram and Bhabanipur, retained the latter. Track LIVE updates on bypoll election results

As per data from the Election Commission, BJP's Hasirani Rath is in the lead with a total of 11,965 votes. Based on this number, the BJP candidate is ahead by a margin of over 9,500 votes from Congress's Milan Pradhan.

As ECI counts the votes for the Nandigram bypolls, heavy security has been deployed at the counting centres.

The Nandigram bypoll is among the first electoral battles in West Bengal after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in May this year with a sweeping victory, ousting the 15-year-old Mamata Banerjee regime, and the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) split into two factions.

West Bengal witnessed high political drama in the run-up to the by-polls in which Sanchita Pradhan Dey, the candidate fielded by Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, withdrew her nomination hours after meeting West Bengal chief minister Suvendu Adhikari.

Soon after Dey resigned, Banerjee announced that the Mamata-AITC led by her would support Milan Pradhan, the Congress candidate in Nandigram.

Hours later, Pradhan was arrested by the police in the 2007 murder cases, but was granted bail by the Calcutta high court.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More