Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Former Keralam Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan | Photo Credit: ANI

The Kerala High Court on Friday (October 9, 2026) directed that an FIR be registered, incorporating offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, against Keralam Opposition Leader Pinarayi Vijayan, his daughter T. Veena and his son-in-law P.A. Mohamed Riyas in the ₹1.72-crore CMRL-Exalogic payoff case.

The petitioner, K.M. Shajahan, an advocate, had earlier approached the State Police Chief and the Director of Vigilance, seeking registration of an FIR and an investigation into allegations of disproportionate assets and intentional enrichment by Mr. Vijayan, abetment under the Prevention of Corruption Act and alleged money laundering by Ms. Veena and Mr. Riyas.

On Friday, a Bench of Justice A. Badharudeen allowed the writ petition and directed the registration of an FIR in the case.

Earlier this month, the High Court had reviewed the information passed on by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to the State Police Chief and observed orally that the question of whether to conduct a preliminary inquiry before registering an FIR would have to be analysed on a “case-to-case basis”. The court had also said that the general principle was that a report or information provided by the ED under the Prevention of Corruption Act was “a substitute” for a preliminary inquiry, which is usually conducted to ascertain whether there was any truth in the allegations.

It also asked why the ED had not challenged the State police’s inaction in registering an FIR. The court further enquired whether the case diary was the sole evidence submitted and whether witness statements had been furnished.

The ED responded that the statements would also be produced if required. Previously, the ED had explained in court that, while investigating offences allegedly committed by Ms. Veena under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and involving her now-defunct company, Exalogic Solutions, the agency had received information regarding a predicate offence that would fall under the purview of the State police. Accordingly, the ED shared the information with the State Police Chief.

The ED and the petitioner had contended that there was no scope for a preliminary inquiry into the facts of the case and that the State police ought to have registered an FIR immediately. The ED submitted that it had come across material relating to certain transactions that had to be investigated by the police or the Vigilance, as they constituted predicate offences.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.