Brendan Carr has ‘shown he won’t hesitate to weaponize FCC against outlets administration dislikes’, says Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression

ABC sues Trump’s media regulator over demand for TV license renewals

Media advocacy organizations are weighing in on a lawsuit that the Walt Disney Corporation and ABC has brought against the FCC over political interference and first amendment rights.

Disney and ABC filed the federal lawsuit in the DC Circuit Court on Tuesday, alleging that the FCC’s demand for an early license renewal process is political retaliation against it for ABC News reporting and shows like Jimmy Kimmel’s late-night comedy that upsets President Donald Trump.

“The day of reckoning for Brendan Carr is finally here,” wrote the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression in a post on social media. “Carr has repeatedly shown he won’t hesitate to weaponize the FCC against outlets the Trump administration dislikes.

“Snarky tweets and the president petting him on the back is not going to help him any longer. ABC is right to stand up to Carr’s pressure tactics. In America, government officials cannot abuse their regulatory power to threaten the first amendment.” “It’s about time for someone to take Carr and his FCC to court over their endless campaign of intimidation and retaliation against journalism that displeases Carr’s thin-skinned boss,” said Seth Stern, chief of advocacy for the Freedom of the Press Foundation.

“No matter what pretexts he asserts, Carr’s modus operandi is clear: to serve as Trump’s censorship czar and abuse his office to repeatedly and exclusively target Trump’s perceived adversaries in the media, whether through sham proceedings or threatening letters and X posts.

“Carr knows the FCC is not the journalism police and said so regularly himself before he decided to throw away any integrity he once had to kiss up to Trump. Countless others whose first amendment rights have been chilled by Carr’s antics should follow Disney’s lead.”

“The current FCC has repeatedly used its power over broadcast speech to jawbone, punish, and threaten censorship of its political opponents,” wrote David Inserra, a fellow for free expression and technology at the Cato Institute, in a statement.

“Today’s lawsuit by ABC Disney against the FCC directly challenges the broad and abusive powers that Congress and prior court decisions gave the FCC. No government agency should ever be empowered to restrict free expression based on what it thinks is fair, equal, or in the best interest of the public.

“In a world where the American people and press can speak through print, broadcast, cable, satellite, internet, and other forms of media, there is no justification for the FCC to continue to wield such significant power over broadcast speech.”

Democratic senator Jon Ossoff called Donald Trump a “draft-dodging, crook president” during a campaign appearance today, continuing a feud with the president that escalated this week. Ossoff is currently running for re-election to his Senate seat in Georgia, and his criticism of the president has received viral attention on social media.

Appearing alongside Arizona senator Mark Kelly and former Arizona congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords today, Ossoff added that Trump “has plunged our nation recklessly into a war he knows not how to end or to win, tried to imprison this man, who embodies American heroism”.

On Sunday, during a campaign appearance in Atlanta, Ossoff similarly attacked Trump’s handling of the US-Israel war on Iran.

“While the sailors on the Lincoln fight his war, while he fruitlessly drains our munitions and oil reserves, the president sleeps through his meetings,” Ossoff said. “He golfs and trades stocks. See, he doesn’t want to do the job. He wants to build his ballroom and travel with Natalie on their apparently defenseless flying palace gifted by the amir of Qatar.”

Ossoff appears to have been referring to Natalie Harp, Trump’s executive assistant, who has drawn scrutiny on social media for her closeness to the US president.

The White House quickly criticized Ossoff on Monday, with the president calling him “Pee Wee Herman” and White House communications director Steven Cheung writing on social media that Ossoff is “a radical, extremist Dumocrat”.

My colleague George Chidi has more on Ossoff’s Sunday campaign appearance:

Brendan Carr, head of the Federal Communications Commission, defended the agency’s investigation into the Walt Disney Corporation and ABC during an interview with Reuters today.

“Disney seems to be a little nervous about what the record’s showing,” Carr ‌said, adding ​that he has made no final decisions on whether to ⁠begin the process of ​revoking Disney’s ​ABC licenses.

“We ​haven’t made a ​decision ‌about ​when ​we’re making a decision,” he said.

A Massachusetts woman who told police that she brought homemade firebombs to the US Capitol to kill Scott Bessent, the US treasury secretary, was sentenced on Tu