NEW DELHI: AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday reacted sharply to the arrest of former Delhi minister Satyendar Jain in an alleged corruption case linked to the Delhi Jal Board. He accused the BJP of targeting them and calling the action part of its "dictatorship".Jain was arrested by the Delhi government's Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) in connection with alleged irregularities in the tendering process for the augmentation and upgradation of sewage treatment plants of the Delhi Jal Board. Five others were also arrested in the case, including former DJB CEO Udit Prakash Rai, former contractual consultant Ankit Srivastava and three private individuals.Reacting to the arrest, Kejriwal said, "Satyendra Jain ji has once again been arrested at the behest of the BJP. Just a short while ago, everyone still remembers the ordeal they put him through by throwing him in jail. The previous case was fabricated too, and this case will also be proven to be fake."Kejriwal accused the BJP of using false charges to imprison people and questioned who would compensate those subjected to imprisonment and alleged mental harassment."How long will the BJP's dictatorship continue like this? Whoever they feel like, they slap false charges on and toss into jail. Their lies will once again be exposed before the nation, but who will compensate for the time spent in jail and the mental torture endured?" he said.The AAP leader further said the BJP had crossed a threshold with the arrest and claimed that the Modi government would eventually lose power."The cup of the BJP's sins has now overflowed. No matter how much dictatorship they resort to, the end of the Modi government is now certain. The entire Aam Aadmi Party and the people of the country stand firmly with Satendra Jain ji," Kejriwal said.The ACB has arrested six people in the case, according to an official cited by news agency ANI. The arrests stem from an FIR registered on May 11, 2024, following a complaint by the Directorate of Vigilance, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi.The case was registered under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code, including allegations of bribery, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.The investigation concerns alleged large-scale irregularities, manipulation of tender conditions and criminal conspiracy in the tendering process related to the Delhi Jal Board's sewage treatment plant projects.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.