Former Delhi minister Satyendar Jain and ex-Delhi Jal Board CEO Udit Prakash Rai are among six persons arrested by the Anti-Corruption Branch in connection with an alleged corruption case, an officer told news agency PTI on Tuesday.

The case, registered on 11 May 2024, involved the tendering process for sewage treatment plant projects of the Delhi Jal Board.

The ACB, in a statement, said the other accused arrested are Ankit Srivastava, a former contractual consultant with the DJB, and private persons Nagendra Yadav, Raja Kumar Kurra and Pankaj Verma.

The Directorate of Vigilance filed a case over alleged large-scale irregularities, manipulation of tender conditions, and criminal conspiracy in the tendering process for the augmentation and upgradation of the DJB's sewage treatment plants.

According to the ACB, the investigation found that the tendering process allegedly contained restrictive technical specifications and conditions favouring a particular technology provider, Euroteck Environment Pvt Ltd, thereby limiting competition and providing undue advantage to the private entity, read the statement.

The agency alleged that the proposed pilot study was not conducted, even though restrictive conditions regarding the technology and media to be used were included in the tender.

It also alleged that essential parameters relating to treated effluent were excluded and that technical specifications were changed, resulting in significant financial implications for the government exchequer, the statement read.

The investigation also revealed regular communication among private individuals, public servants, and intermediaries to manipulate the tender process. Analysis of electronic evidence showed an exchange of tender conditions, corrigendums and other documents which were subsequently incorporated into the DJB's tender notice, the ACB said.

The agency further alleged that money in the form of commission or bribe was routed through intermediary entities, including Srijanhar and AN Enterprises, the statement read.

The investigation allegedly found that substantial amounts were transferred to Yadav's proprietorship by entities linked to Euroteck. Further transactions allegedly resulted in the transfer of funds to Rai and his relatives through banking channels.

The ACB said that Rai received ₹1.52 crore in his and his relatives' bank accounts through AN Enterprises and the money was allegedly used for purchasing immovable property.

The agency is examining the complete money trail and alleged proceeds of crime, it said.

The ACB also cited alleged communications among Kurra, Yadav and Srivastava regarding meetings, tender conditions and corrigendums, saying the material indicated that certain conditions were introduced or modified to favour Euroteck.

The six accused were interrogated and arrested on Tuesday in accordance with the law, the ACB said, adding that further investigation was underway.

For about a decade, Livemint—News Desk has been a credible source for authentic and timely news, and well-researched analysis on national news, business, personal finance, corporates, politics and geopolitics. We bring the latest updates on all the listed companies on BSE and NSE, startups, mutual funds, Union ministries, geopolitics, and untapped human interest stories from around the world, helping our readers to stay informed on the latest developments around the globe. Our Coverage Areas 1. Companies: Comprehensive news and analysis on listed and unlisted companies, corporate announcements, corporate chatter, C-suite, business trends, hiring alerts, layoffs, work-life balance, world's top billionaires and richest and more. 2. Personal finance: Insights into mutual funds, small savings schemes like - PPF, SSY, post office savings scheme, stock to watch, personal loans, credit cards, top bank FDs, real estate, income tax and more. 3. Politics: Comprehensive coverage of general elections, state elections and bypolls, Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha, Parliament, PMO, PIB, finance ministry, home ministry, among other union ministries and government departments. 4. National News: From metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, and e to untapped stories from rural India, we cover human interest, health, education, crime and courts, and law and order, among other areas of public interest. 5. Economy: In-depth analysis of India's macro and micro-economic indicators like- GDP, inflation, forex, fiscal deficit, current account deficit, interest rate cycle, economic recovery, RBI circulars, indirect taxes, GST, Insolvency and Bankruptcy imports, exports and everything that impacts Indian economy. 6. Geopolitics: Well-rounded and deeply researched coverage on US News, Oval Office European Union, Ukraine Russia War, middle-east crisis, royal families and global leaders like - Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong Un, Xi Jinping and premiers of other leading economies in the world. Meet the Team 1. Gulam Jeelani, Political Affairs Editor 2. 