Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

The police said that, at one point on July 20, there were over 30,000 protestors faced by only 5,000 uniformed police officers. File. | Photo Credit: The Hindu

The 42-page Delhi Police affidavit filed in the Supreme Court near midnight on August 17, 2026, is rich in statistics, detailing the number of barricades used to regulate the NEET-UG protestors’ movement to the strength of women police officers deployed.

But the affidavit is quiet about what the police hierarchy has done so far to inquire into and fix accountability for officers who allegedly misbehaved with women students and protestors.

The Supreme Court has assured the petitioners’ counsel, senior advocates Gopal Sankaranarayanan and Shadan Farasat, that it would have the proposed high-powered committee look into allegations of plainclothes police personnel sexually molesting women protestors. Legal action would follow based on the committee’s report, Chief Justice Surya Kant, heading the Bench, said on Tuesday (August 18, 2026).

The affidavit said over 3,600 barricades were used to protect vulnerable locations and highly sensitive areas. A total of over 4,600 women police personnel were deployed during the entire protest period. A facial recognition system spotted 2,873 faces which matched those in police databases.

The affidavit even details the number of motor vehicles stolen between July 20 and July 26, 2026, as seven.

Other thefts numbered 66, and 123 lost reports were lodged, the Delhi Police said, “showcasing that the protest was infiltrated by miscreants, criminals and anti-social elements”.

Ready to drop FIRs against student protesters, says Supreme Court

SC to examine ‘proportionality’ of the use of facial recognition at NEET protests

However, the Delhi Police affidavit is not forthcoming on the “use of force by the police officials” on protestors. It said the court may appoint a high-powered committee to examine all issues related to this aspect.

“The deponent [police] is advised not to deal with the allegations against police officials and reiterate that the use of force was made in a graded manner,” the affidavit maintained.

It said over 240 police personnel, including women officers, were injured in the violence on July 20. Around 218 protestors were injured and received treatment.

The background to the protests and consequent police action on July 20 was of “considerable significance”, the police said. The protests at Jantar Mantar were “potentially sui generis” or one of a kind.

The series of events began on June 6, 2026, when some individuals began an agitation. Saurav Das, a member of the Cockroach Janta Party, sought permission from the Delhi Police on June 17 to organise a peaceful demonstration on June 20 with an expected gathering of 500-600 people. Permission was granted as a “one-time exception”. However, the protestors did not vacate the area after the scheduled time on June 20. Rather, a large number of students, political workers and leaders, activists and others came and addressed the gathering to continue and expand the agitation. The police said the protestors’ strength had increased from a “few dozen” of the initial days of the agitation.

Events took an unprecedented turn, the police said, with the commencement of the monsoon session of Parliament. Permission was neither sought nor granted for any ‘Sansad Chalo’ march on July 20.

The march took an aggressive turn when a section of the protestors attempted to breach police barricades to advance to the Parliament. The police had to prevent the protestors from causing any damage to vital installations, including the Parliament, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Seva Teerth, Kartavya Bhavan, Central government offices, and residences of Union Ministers, the armed forces, and the judiciary located in the high security zone around Parliament, the affidavit said.

Videos on social media show police personnel thrashed, women police officers manhandled, and government vehicles burnt, creating a grave law and order as well as security situation, the affidavit said.

The police said that, at one point on July 20, there were over 30,000 protestors faced by only 5,000 uniformed police officers. Police personnel were attacked without any provocation “almost in a mob lynching fashion”, the affidavit said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.