Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday claimed that the 2024 Delhi Jal Board corruption case against former minister Satyender Jain will be “proven fake”, accusing the ACB of arresting him at “the behest of the BJP”.

Kejriwal's reaction came as Jain was arrested on Tuesday over alleged corruption in Delhi Jal Board (DJB) tenders. The action was taken by the Delhi Anti-Corruption Bureau in connection with an FIR registered in 2024.

Accusing the ACB of taking action on “BJP's behest”, Kejriwal said that “lies will be exposed again”, referring to Jain's previous acquittal in another corruption case.

“Satyendra Jain ji has once again been arrested at the behest of the BJP. Just a short while ago, everyone remembers the ordeal they put him through by throwing him in jail. The previous case was fabricated, and this case will be proven fake, too. How long will the BJP's dictatorship continue like this? They throw anyone they please into jail on false charges. Their lies will once again be exposed before the nation, but who will compensate for the time spent in jail and the mental torture endured?” he wrote on X.

Arvind Kejriwal backed Satyender Jain, saying that the entire Aam Aadmi Party stands “firmly” with the former minister.

"The BJP's cup of sins has now overflowed. No matter how much tyranny they resort to, the end of the Modi government is now certain. The entire Aam Aadmi Party and the people of the country stand firmly with Satyendra Jain ji," the former Delhi CM added.

The case against Satyender Jain and others was registered on the complaint of the Delhi government's Directorate of Vigilance regarding large-scale irregularities, manipulation of tender conditions, and criminal conspiracy in the tendering process for the augmentation or upgradation of the DJB's Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs).

Apart from Jain, who was then the minister of water, five others have also been arrested. These include former DJB CEO Udit Prakash Rai and the board's former contractual consultant Ankit Srivastava.

The other accused arrested are Ankit Srivastava, a former contractual consultant with the DJB, and private persons Nagendra Yadav, Raja Kumar Kurra and Pankaj Verma, the ACB said in a statement.

The FIR in the case was registered in May 2024 under Sections 7, 7A, 9, and 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended in 2018), along with Sections 420, 409, 418, and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More