The Goa government has approached the Supreme Court seeking a tougher sentence for former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal, asking that his 10-year prison term in a 2013 rape case be increased to life imprisonment, Bar and Bench reported. The plea comes after the Bombay High Court overturned Tejpal's acquittal by a trial court and convicted him earlier this month.

Tejpal was accused of sexually assaulting a junior colleague inside a hotel elevator in Goa in 2013. The Bombay High Court sentenced him to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of more than ₹10 lakh.

The state has challenged the sentence before the Supreme Court, seeking life imprisonment instead of the 10-year term handed down by the High Court.

A bench of Justices Neela Gokhale and Amit Jamsandekar had imposed the minimum sentence prescribed for rape, taking into account that 13 years had passed since the incident and that Tejpal had no previous criminal record.

"Both parties (the victim and Tejpal) may have moved on in life," the court said.

The High Court initially directed Tejpal to surrender within two weeks. His lawyers subsequently sought more time, following which the deadline was extended to four weeks.

Tarun Tejpal, then editor-in-chief of Tehelka, was accused of sexually assaulting a junior colleague in an elevator at a luxury hotel during an event organised by the magazine in Goa.

Goa Police registered an FIR against him for several offences, including rape. He was arrested in November 2013 and released on bail in July 2014.

The trial began in 2017 and lasted four years. In May 2021, the trial court acquitted Tejpal, citing shortcomings in the investigation and the prosecution's failure to produce crucial evidence, including CCTV footage.

The Goa government challenged the acquittal before the Bombay High Court.

The High Court reversed the trial court's verdict on August 6 and convicted Tejpal. In its 81-page judgment, it described the earlier acquittal as "perverse" and criticised the approach taken towards the complainant.

The court rejected the idea that a sexual assault survivor must behave in a particular manner to be considered credible. It also criticised the defence's focus on the complainant's personal life during cross-examination.

The judges said they found it surprising that the trial court "remained silent and allowed the defence to harass and humiliate her during the cross examination".

Tejpal, 62, has denied the allegations and maintained that the case was politically motivated. He has indicated that he would challenge his conviction before the Supreme Court.

The latest plea by the Goa government means the Supreme Court will now consider the state's request to enhance the sentence to life imprisonment, alongside Tejpal's challenge to his conviction.

For about a decade, Livemint—News Desk has been a credible source for authentic and timely news, and well-researched analysis on national news, business, personal finance, corporates, politics and geopolitics. We bring the latest updates on all the listed companies on BSE and NSE, startups, mutual funds, Union ministries, geopolitics, and untapped human interest stories from around the world, helping our readers to stay informed on the latest developments around the globe. Our Coverage Areas 1. Companies: Comprehensive news and analysis on listed and unlisted companies, corporate announcements, corporate chatter, C-suite, business trends, hiring alerts, layoffs, work-life balance, world's top billionaires and richest and more. 2. Personal finance: Insights into mutual funds, small savings schemes like - PPF, SSY, post office savings scheme, stock to watch, personal loans, credit cards, top bank FDs, real estate, income tax and more. 3. Politics: Comprehensive coverage of general elections, state elections and bypolls, Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha, Parliament, PMO, PIB, finance ministry, home ministry, among other union ministries and government departments. 4. National News: From metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, and e to untapped stories from rural India, we cover human interest, health, education, crime and courts, and law and order, among other areas of public interest. 5. Economy: In-depth analysis of India's macro and micro-economic indicators like- GDP, inflation, forex, fiscal deficit, current account deficit, interest rate cycle, economic recovery, RBI circulars, indirect taxes, GST, Insolvency and Bankruptcy imports, exports and everything that impacts Indian economy. 6. Geopolitics: Well-rounded and deeply researched coverage on US News, Oval Office European Union, Ukraine Russia War, middle-east crisis, royal families and global leaders like - Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong Un, Xi Jinping and premiers of other leading economies in the world. Meet the Team 1. Gulam Jeelani, Political Affairs Editor 2. Sugam Singhal, Senior Assistant Editor 3. Chanchal, Assistant Editor 4. Sanchari Ghosh, Chief Content Producer 5. Pratik Prashant Mukane, C