The US military says it has hit three Iran-linked oil tankers in retaliation for Tehran targeting two American warships in the region.

US Central Command (Centcom) said on Saturday it had "permanently disabled" two tankers, including one near Kharg Island, and "completely destroyed" a third in the Gulf of Oman.

Iran's state media confirmed the strikes and said Tehran had launched attacks on three US-affiliated vessels in response, as well as three oil tankers travelling along an "unauthorised" route through the Strait of Hormuz.

Fighting has flared up again over the past week, with little apparent progress towards ending the six-month war.

Iranian state media outlet Irib reported that there were no casualties in Saturday's attack on the tanker near Kharg Island, and that footage indicated the vessel's cooling system put out the fire within an hour.

Kharg Island hosts Iran's main terminal to export oil. Some 90% of the country's crude oil comes through the island, transported through pipes from the mainland.

The crews aboard the two attacked tankers in the Gulf of Oman were taken to shore in lifeboats, Irib reported. One of those tankers was empty and the other was carrying a load of oil, it added.

Irib later reported that Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) had retaliated against six ships in the region - three oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz and three vessels "affiliated" with the US "in other areas".

According to Irib, the IRGC said the three oil tankers were using "unauthorised" routes through the strait and it warned other ships not to do so.

The strait, which is crucial to the world's oil and gas industry, has been effectively closed since the war began in February, and has become a major source of leverage for Iran.

Tehran has insisted it will not give up some measure of control over the waterway and has previously targeted vessels using a southern route through Omani waters that avoids its preferred route through Iranian waters.

Despite the Iranian attacks, US President Donald Trump has declared that the strait is "open" and the US military has been helping ships navigate the southern route.

The news of Iran's latest retaliation came hours after Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth wrote on social media: "It's simple: if Iran shoots at US ships, we will destroy (and sink) their oil tankers."

Centcom said it "successfully evaded" multiple attacks from the IRGC earlier in the day, which were targeting a US aircraft carrier and guided-missile destroyer. No American troops were harmed, it said.

Centcom, which oversees US military operations in the Middle East, claimed that the three Iranian oil tankers were "part of a multi-billion-dollar shadow network that funds the IRGC and its regional proxies".

The strikes come nearly a week after attacks restarted between the US and Iran, following a period of relative calm between the warring sides.

The US resumed attacks last Sunday, when it said it had struck two rocket launchers to prevent them being used to lay naval mines in the Strait of Hormuz.

How could US-Iran conflict end? Three experts give their views

On Tuesday, Trump said the US had launched a further "very heavy attack", but claimed the renewed fighting would not last "too long".

The strikes prompted Iran to retaliate against US targets in the region, including in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Bahrain, Kuwait and Jordan.

On Thursday, US Vice-President JD Vance also addressed claims by Iran that American strikes killed at least four people, including two children, at a wedding in southern Iran. He said he was "extremely sceptical" over reports of the alleged strike, but confirmed the US would investigate.

Humanitarian group the Iranian Red Crescent Society said shrapnel from a missile hit the ceremony at a home in Sirik on Tuesday, prompting Tehran to declare it a "war crime".

What we know about reported strike on Iran wedding celebrations

A 60-day ceasefire between the US and Iran formally expired last month, with little sign of a further diplomatic settlement on the horizon.

Days after the ceasefire expired, Trump said the US would launch tougher economic measures against Iran, as well as any country that helps or does business with it.

The US and Israel first launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran on 28 February, with Iran responding by attacking Israel, US bases and allied states in the Gulf, and effectively closing the Strait of Hormuz to marine traffic.

The Strait of Hormuz previously served as one of the busiest oil-shipping routes, carrying about 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas supplies.

The squeeze on the strait has raised energy prices globally. And, ahead of the US midterm elections in November, Trump is facing pressure over how much the war is costing American consumers.

On Friday, the average price for one gallon of diesel in the US hit $5.85, compared to an average of $3.71 a year ago.

Iran says US strike killed four at wedding in