‘The Magic Faraway Tree’ review: An enchanting adaptation of the Enid Blyton stories

Donations to six Gujarat-based parties exceeded those to national parties except BJP, reports BBC

Why is Goa allowing the 500-year-old Adil Shah Palace to crumble?

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Oxford University agrees to repatriate 39 Naga ancestral human remains taken during colonial rule

‘Laugh With Me’: Ruskin Bond offers poignant, humorous anecdotes about his writing career

Rajasthan HC acting chief justice claims allegations that he misused his office are ‘baseless’

September Indian nonfiction: Six new titles that revisit the past to question the present

‘Mirzapur the Movie’ review: Big-screen version of the web series stands on its own bloodied feet

What the film ‘Last Man in Tower’ says about Mumbai: ‘No corner of the city’s left untouched’

The United Nations General Assembly on Friday adopted a new world map that makes the African continent appear larger and shrinks North America and Europe.

The nonbinding resolution piloted by Togo was aimed at adopting a more accurate representation of continental landmasses. While it was supported by 164 countries, including India, six countries abstained from voting. The United States was the only country to vote against the resolution.

The new map, known as the Equal Earth cartographic projection, improves the accuracy of the cartographic representation of the continents. Created by a group of cartographers in 2018, the new map makes Africa, Latin America, South Asia and Oceania appear much larger.

It replaces the 16th century Mercator projection, still the most widely used map in the world. It was devised by Flemish cartographer Gerardus Mercator to solve a maritime navigation problem. Because straight lines on his map correspond to constant compass directions, sailors could use it to plot their courses, the United Nations noted.

However, while preserving directions, landmasses closer to the poles appear increasingly enlarged than those near the equator. For example, Greenland looks roughly the same size as Africa, even though the latter is about 14 times larger.

The resolution passed on Friday said that the distortions in the Mercator projection had contributed to the “symbolic minimisation” of Africa and perpetuated an unbalanced view of the world.

The US objected to the change saying that it “mocks the work and purpose of this institution”, referring to the United Nations. Washington claimed that while the resolution had been presented as a harmless attempt to update cartographic proportions, it was part of “the much larger and more radical ideological project it belongs to”.

The US, among several other countries such as Russia and Canada, appear smaller in the new map as compared to the Mercator projection.

Togo’s Foreign Minister Robert Dussey defended the resolution, saying that it was not meant to condemn Mercator or impose a single projection. “A fair map does not change the geography of the world, it changes how we see the world,” a UN handout quoted him as saying.