NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday took a jibe at leader of opposition Rahul Gandhi, describing the Congress party's student outreach campaign "Chhatron Ki Goonj" as "jhooth ki goonj".'Chhatron Ki Goonj' is a student-dialogue campaign launched by the Congress to raise issues including examination paper leaks, rising education costs, irregularities in government recruitment and unemployment.Over the past three months, the campaign has been held in Kota in Rajasthan, Dehradun in Uttarakhand, Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh and Pune in Maharashtra.Addressing the centenary celebrations of Delhi University's Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), PM Modi said, "...Main jaanta hoon, sach ki Hunkkaar ke aage jhooth ki goonj tik nahi sakegi (I know that the echo of lies cannot stand before the roar of truth)."'Modi stands like a rock'PM Modi said he had the courage to remind students of his 2013 speech and compare his claims with India's current position."This is Modi. He stands like a rock in front of those who favour the 'mai-baap' culture. I have the courage, which is why I am reminding you of what I said that day. I have come before you with my report card. At the same programme in 2013, when I said that we needed to work towards "Made in India," people from the ecosystem of that time simply could not understand it. They believed that Made in India was impossible during that period of despair. And those who were brought up with that mindset still make fun of Made in India today. But today you can see the brand value of Make in India,” the PM said.PM Modi takes 'Naraz Fufa' jibeThe Primr Minister also described those who oppose government initiatives as "Naraz Fufa", saying, "But outside this campus, you will encounter a new world. You will meet two kinds of people. One kind consists of people who positively transform the strength of society into the strength of the nation. The second kind is made up of people who become the "Naraz Fufa" whenever any work is started."Their favourite thing is to oppose everything. They have only one dialogue: What is the need for this? When we were building the world's tallest statue, the "Fufa" said, "What is the need for this?" When we started working on the high-speed train, the "Fufa" again said, What is the need for this? When we introduced UPI, these same "Fufas" asked, Why UPI? When we built the new Parliament building, they again said, "What is the need for this?" We built a memorial for our brave military heroes who dedicated their lives and made the supreme sacrifice for the country. The "Fufa" came onto the field again and asked, "What was the need for this?" But India gave an answer to all these "Fufas." No one can stop India from doing what is necessary for the country," he added.PM recalls 2013, attacks UPA-era recordRecalling the situation in 2013, PM Modi listed what he described as the major challenges facing the country at the time."There is a gang that will take what I am saying, break it into small pieces and put it in my account. So, let me warn you in advance about this. Let me tell you what used to dominate the media during that period in 2013. For example, Indian soldiers were being killed along the LoC. The current generation may find it surprising; perhaps they may wonder, "Did this really happen?" Yes, it did. The World Bank had lowered its GDP growth forecast. The current account deficit was at an all-time high. Inflation was around 10 per cent. The industrial sector was in the grip of a slowdown. Corruption in the helicopter deal had been exposed. There were bomb blasts in Hyderabad. These were all headlines at that time. I firmly believe that our students today may not know about all these things," PM Modi said."These developments show what the condition of the country was at that time. Growth was at the bottom, while inflation was at the peak. Scams were at their height, and the corrupt were moving around fearlessly. The economy was in distress. There was discussion everywhere about policy paralysis. The world was counting India among the "Fragile Five." Terrorists were operating unchecked, and Pakistan was out of control. In other words, there was nothing but disappointment and despair. There was a time when the country was struggling on every front..." he added.PM Modi said that despite being in the opposition during his 2013 visit, he had not used the SRCC platform to attack the then government."Your seniors were sitting here in 2013, and at that time I was the Chief Minister, but I was also a member of the country's main opposition party. Perhaps people were expecting me to launch a long, strong attack on the then Central Government and level a barrage of allegations. But, even though I was in the Opposition and a critic of the government of the time, I did not use this platform for that purpose. I presented a vision. I spoke positively. Whatever I said then was my conviction. I have always lived those thoughts and dreams. I continue