Assam CM lays foundation for Adani power project on land cleared by evicting 1,400 Muslim families

Trump signs bill allowing 100% tariffs on India, other countries for buying Russian oil

Review: India’s Oscar pick ‘Gondhal’ is a rural lust story about macho men and wily women

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

At least 82% of voters deleted during Bengal SIR have appealed against removal, EC data shows

After Nandigram, Mamata’s Rejinagar bye-poll candidate announces withdrawal, then makes U-turn

How AI could influence our understanding of mathematics: A computer scientist-novelist’s reflections

Why it is important to teach students what AI cannot do when it comes to writing

Election Commissioner SS Sandhu, Delhi Chief Minister Rekha Gupta and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal are among 33 lakh electors in the national capital for whom notices have been generated in the special intensive revision process for them to prove their eligibility to vote, The Indian Express reported.

The list of persons to whom notices have been issued was released on Saturday on the website of the Delhi chief electoral officer.

Gupta, a voter from the Shalimar Bagh constituency, was sent a notice as the difference between her age and her parents’ age appeared to be below 15 years. Her details were later validated when she provided the necessary documents, the electoral registration officer from the constituency said.

Kejriwal and his family had not provided details about their inclusion in the last special intensive revision exercise, The Indian Express quoted the Electoral Registration Officer of the New Delhi Assembly seat as saying.

Commenting on Kejriwal being given a notice, AAP national executive member Anurag Dhanda remarked in a social media post: “We have been saying from the very first day that this isn’t just the SIR, but is the BJP’s game at play. If they had their way, they’d reserve voting rights just for [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi and [Union Home Minister] Amit Shah, and delete the votes of all their opponents.”

हम तो पहले दिन से कह रहे हैं कि ये SIR नहीं बीजेपी का खेल चल रहा है। इनका बस चले तो ये मोदी और अमित शाह का ही वोट का अधिकार रखें और सब विरोधियों के वोट काट दें। तीन बार के दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी और उनके परिवार के वोट दिल्ली की वोटर लिस्ट से ग़ायब करना कौन सी… https://t.co/ayjeEfikoJ

Other prominent persons who received notices as part of the special intensive revision process include former Vice President Jagdeep Dhankhar and his wife Sudesh Dhankhar, ex-Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B Lokur, former Union Minister Kapil Sibal and his wife Promila Sibal, The Hindu reported.

Lokur has been sent a notice as the age gap between him and his grandfather was not more than 40 years, the newspaper reported.

Bharatiya Janata Party veteran leader LK Advani, former Delhi deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, BJP MLA Kailash Gahlot, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi, BJP MP Bansuri Swaraj and former Union Minister Subramanian Swamy have also received notices, Hindustan Times reported.

The 33 lakh voters who have been sent notice account for about one-third of the 97.5 lakh voters included in the draft voter rolls, The Hindu reported. Verification of such cases is to be completed by October 29, while the final electoral rolls are slated to be published on November 4.

On Sunday, the Delhi chief electoral officer’s clarified that receiving a notice does not mean that a voter’s name will be deleted from the electoral roll.

“System generated notices” are being sent to voters who could not be linked to the electoral roll from the previous special intensive revision or whose linking contained “logical discrepancies”, the poll body said.

Delhi is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of SIR.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

Since the exercise began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.