NEW DELHI: Several well-known VIP faces in politics and in govt have got notices for various SIR “discrepancies” in Delhi.Among them are former Indian Vice-President Jagdeep Dhankhar, BJP veteran LK Advani, former Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, foreign minister S Jaishankar, election commissioner Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, foreign secretary Vikram Misri, former NITI Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya, SEBI chairman Tuhin Kanta Pandey, BJP MLA Kailash Gahlot, former army chief Upendra Dwevedi, CBI director Praveen Sood and former Delhi LG Najeeb Jung.Delhi chief minister Rekha Gupta has been sent a notice for an age discrepancy. Former CM Arvind Kejriwal also has got a notice, but for being an unmapped voter.Bibek Debroy, a former chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, who passed away in 2024, has also been served an SIR notice. His name was also included in the draft rolls published on Aug 31. “The late Bibek Debroy’s name appeared on the flagged list which included prominent voters. As per the ECI’s instructions, names on the flagged list, including those of VVIPs and VIPs, are retained in the draft rolls so that the required documents can be collected during the claims and objections process. We are aware of his death and his name will be excluded from the final list,” an official said.Those issued the notices are among the 97.5 lakh voters included in the draft SIR roll released on Aug 31. Of them, about 33 lakh have been found to have some kind of discrepancy. So far, the poll panel has issued notices to 31.6 lakh people and uploaded the lists of such voters on its website.More than half of those served notices have “logical discrepancies”, such as mismatches in names and inconsistencies in age or family details. The rest were listed for “no mapping” with previous SIR of 2002. The “logical discrepancies” have been identified by the system.Advani, daughter Pratibha Advani and daughter-in-law Geetika have been flagged under the “no mapping” category, which means their names could not be linked to the 2002 SIR.Sandhu has been served the notice for a “name mismatch”, while Misri is in the “unmapped” category. The New Delhi district election office said that in Sandhu’s case “the details... furnished by the elector have been verified. The entry pertaining to SS Sandhu has already been validated”.Sisodia, his wife Seema and son Meer have got notices over “name mismatch” and “discrepancy in his parents’ names”. Gahlot has been marked under “no mapping” category.Delhi CEO’s office Sunday clarified that no name will be deleted without giving voters an opportunity to be heard.“These electors may submit a reply to the ERO/BLO. EROs will take the final decision on case-by-case basis.... Disposal of notices will be completed by 29.10.2026 and the names of electors will be included in the final electoral roll to be published on 04.11.2026,” the CEO office said.Lawyer Kapil Sibal, who is on the list, said the SIR was a “special intensive deletion” to remove valid voters and add invalid voters.You Can Also Check: Gold Rate in Delhi | Silver Rate in Delhi | Bank Holidays in Delhi | Public Holidays in Delhi | Delhi AQI | Weather in Delhi | Petrol Price in Delhi | Diesel Price in Delhi | CNG Price in Delhi | LPG Price in DelhiStay updated with the latest Delhi news. Download the TOI App.