Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Police personnel stand guard outside the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Main Gate in Mumbai on September 19, 2026. | Photo Credit: ANI

The Mumbai Police late on Saturday (September 19, 2026) transferred the probe into the death of a second-year student at IIT-Bombay to the Crime Branch, saying an officer of the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police will lead the investigation.

On Sunday (September 20, 2026), the Faculty Forum of IIT Bombay expressed condolences to the family of the student but stood by Professor Suryanarayana Doolla, who has been named in the FIR along with other institute officials. The forum said Mr. Doolla discharged his duties in line with academic policies approved by the institute’s Senate.

Referring to the incident during an examination that allegedly led to the death, the forum said Mr. Doolla reported the incident as part of the institute-approved procedure and said it was “absolutely distressed” at the damage done to his reputation.

The student, Sahil, was found dead in his hostel room on Friday (September 18, 2026) after Mr. Doolla reported him for possessing a phone during the examination. The professor was invigilating the exam. Reports said Sahil had uploaded the question paper on an AI platform.

Sahil’s family said he was subjected to casteist remarks. His father, Ravindra, said in the FIR that his son had told him that Mr. Doolla had harassed him for three months. The family did not file a complaint with the institute at that time. The FIR has invoked the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

The family and some students said that on the day of the examination, officials took Sahil out of the hall and threatened him with suspension.

IIT-Bombay, however, said that no disciplinary action was initiated against the student, adding that officials counselled Sahil and assured him that the incident would not affect his academic career.

Institute director Shireesh Kedare denied caste-based discrimination and said that caste-related information about the students remains confidential and is not available to faculty or administrators. The institute’s SC/ST cell said it did not receive a complaint from Sahil regarding caste-based discrimination.

(Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Tele-MANAS 14416. and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).

investigation / crime, law and justice / IIT / education / death / universities and colleges

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.