Assam CM lays foundation for Adani power project on land cleared by evicting 1,400 Muslim families

Review: India’s Oscar pick ‘Gondhal’ is a rural lust story about macho men and wily women

Trump signs bill allowing 100% tariffs on India, other countries for buying Russian oil

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

After Nandigram, Mamata’s Rejinagar bye-poll candidate announces withdrawal, then makes U-turn

National law school Bengaluru cancels Umar Khalid documentary screening, 2 days after IIIT Hyderabad

‘The act of writing is un-citizenly’: Amit Chaudhuri talks about his new novel, ‘Château Rouge’

The Mumbai Police on Saturday filed a first information report against a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, a day after a student at the institute died by suicide, The Times of India reported.

The parents of the student, 20-year-old Sahil Wakode, have alleged that he faced caste-based discrimination at the institute.

The police have filed a case against Professor Suryanarayan Doolla and other unidentified persons on charges of abetment to suicide and under provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act.

IIT-Bombay claimed that during an examination on Friday, Wakode was found using a mobile phone and uploading the question paper on artificial intelligence chatbot ChatGPT to seek answers. Doolla was reportedly the invigilator at the time.

The institute, however, claimed that no disciplinary action was taken against Wakode. “The matter was also discussed with the student by the instructor, the faculty advisor and the Head of the Department, who counselled him and assured him that the incident would not adversely affect his academic career,” it said.

IIT-Bombay said it was extending support to Wakode’s family and friends. “The circumstances surrounding the death are being looked into by the appropriate authorities,” it said.

Unfortunate Death of A Student at IIT Bombay pic.twitter.com/2jq0ncl5RL

Wakode’s parents, however, alleged that their son was threatened with suspension, The Indian Express reported.

The student’s father Ravindra Wakode alleged that Doola had subjected his son to his caste discrimination for the last three months on the instructions of the institute’s director, Professor Shireesh B Kedare.

“Doolla was passing casteist remarks for the past three months and had threatened to implicate him in a wrong manner before the incident took place,” Ravindra Wakode alleged in his complaint, according to the newspaper.

Kedare, however, denied that there was any caste discrimination in the case. “In fact caste-based information of every student is completely hidden and not available for anybody’s information,” he was quoted as saying by The Indian Express.

The institute’s Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Cell, in an email to students, had said it had not received any complaint of caste discrimination from Wakode, The Times of India reported.

The student’s family had initially refused to claim his body from the city’s Rajawadi Hospital for about seven hours, demanding the arrest of the accused persons.

The parents eventually claimed his body late on Saturday night after the police assured them that the investigation had been transferred to the Crime Branch, The Times of India reported. An officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will conduct the investigation.