Donald Trump confirmed that the US negotiating team spoke with Iranian officials through mediators today. This comes after the president rejected the latest ceasefire proposal from Tehran, and Iran said it has “no plans” to negotiate with Washington.

“We’re going to win,” he said. “As far as I’m concerned, it’s going to be one way or the other. It’s going to be it’s going to go pretty quickly.”

This concludes our live coverage of the second Trump administration for the day. Here are the latest developments:

Anthropic will caution investors that artificial intelligence could pose ‘catastrophic or existential risks to humanity’ in its IPO prospectus. As Anthropic prepares for an IPO listing, which could value the AI company at a monumental $2tn, it dedicated almost a third of its prospectus to discussing concerns around AI safety. The news comes as OpenAI has halted the release of its next AI model over safety concerns, the Wall Street Journal reports.

Donald Trump confirmed that the US negotiating team spoke with Iranian officials through mediators today. This comes after the president rejected the latest ceasefire proposal from Tehran over the weekend, and in response Iran said it has “no plans” to negotiate with Washington. However, in the Oval Office today, Trump was resolute. “We’re going to win,” he said. “As far as I’m concerned, it’s going to be one way or the other. It’s going to be it’s going to go pretty quickly.”

Trump will also be on the campaign trail this week – hosting rallies in Durant, Oklahoma, on Thursday, Mobile, Alabama, on Friday and Vandalia, Ohio, on Saturday. The first two states are GOP strongholds, and Trump has pushed voters to turn out to the polls and pretend the president was at the top of the ballot this midterm cycle. There are now growing concerns from national Republicans that the party is facing stronger headwinds in otherwise safe seats and states, amid record-low polling for the Trump administration.

Pete Hegseth ordered the defense department to ‘protect and uphold the reliability of America’s voting mechanisms against external manipulation and disruption from foreign actors’ in a 22 September memo. Hegseth’s order comes as concerns about artificial intelligence are on the rise, but also as the Trump administration has spread misinformation about voter fraud. In July, Trump accused China of interfering in the 2020 election, which he lost.

Andrew Bailey said he is stepping down as one of the FBI’s two deputy directors after just over a year in the role – a short tenure that unfolded as he helped oversee several of Trump’s election‑related investigations. Bailey was appointed in August 2025 to serve alongside Dan Bongino at a moment of sharp tension between the FBI and justice department leadership over the handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files. The move was striking because the bureau has historically had only a single deputy director. More here

Pope Leo addressed concerns about artificial intelligence and the war in Ukraine during a press conference onboard the papal plane today. Saying that concerns about AI are not “fake news”, the first US pope appeared to criticize Donald Trump, who called concerns about AI a “hoax” during a UN address last week. Leo also encouraged Russia and Ukraine to discuss an end to the war, and criticized leaders who are “beginning to speak about nuclear weapons and wars that are becoming ⁠ever more destructive”.

While the lawmakers in the US House have already left Washington to get a head start on midterm campaigning, the Senate is hoping to wrap up its legislative agenda this week. Today, we can expect a vote in the upper chamber on the Protect College Sports Act, which attempts to provide greater protections for university athletes in the US. The bill includes provisions for players to earn compensation from their name, image and likeness – known as NIL payments – and allow them to transfer schools (and teams) without being penalized or forced to sit out for a defined period of time.

The state department will revoke the visas of 27 Latin American officials, former officials and their families, over allegations of ‘corruption and narco-trafficking’. Those affected include Bolivian attorney general Roger Mariaca, more than 20 other Bolivian prosecutors and judges, two Colombians, two Ecuadorians and one Peruvian judge.

Samuel Alito has recused himself from a major climate-change case before the supreme court after calls for him to step aside due to his stock holdings in oil companies. The court is expected to hear arguments from local officials in Boulder, Colorado, alleging officials at SunCor Energy and ExxonMobil deceived the public about the role of fossil fuels in climate change. After Colorado’s supreme court refused to dismiss the lawsuit, the defendants filed a petition with the US supreme court asking them to shut down the case.

OpenAI says its AI models accessed Australian government websites without authorization duri