US president Donald Trump on Monday denied asking Chinese president Xi Jinping whether he wanted to buy American weapons, contradicting US Ambassador to China David Perdue, who said Trump had made such an offer to his Chinese counterpart.According to news agency AFP, Trump appeared confused when a reporter asked him on Monday about Ambassador David Perdue’s remarks over the weekend, suggesting that the diplomat may have been referring to Taiwan rather than China.The remarks came as the administration sought to distance itself from an assertion that could mark a major shift in longstanding US policy towards China.“To China? You mean to Taiwan?” Trump said. “I never heard of that one. I'm going to have to ask him,” he added.Trump then suggested such a proposal could make sense, while denying that the issue had been discussed with Xi.He said China would probably be interested in buying US equipment, which he described as superior, adding, “So maybe it's a good idea. But we didn't discuss it. He may have been talking about Taiwan. I think he was probably talking about Taiwan.”Perdue had made the original claim during an interview with Shannon Bream on Fox News Channel’s “Fox News Sunday”. Discussing US arms sales to Taiwan, Perdue said Trump had sought to portray such sales as part of Washington’s wider weapons trade.“But President Trump continues to say, Hey, we sell arms to other people around the world,'” Perdue said. “He actually asked President Xi, would he like to buy some, at one point.”Perdue did not specify when the alleged exchange took place, what weapons were discussed or how Xi responded.The State Department moved to clarify the US position on Monday, saying: “US law prohibits arms sales to China and there is no offer or plan to sell arms to China.”The remarks came against the backdrop of continued US arms sales to Taiwan, which Beijing opposes. Perdue also defended Trump’s approach to Taiwan, saying the president “is as strong on Taiwan as I've ever seen anybody” and has sold it plenty of weapons.Trump has previously described arms sales to Taiwan as a negotiating tool with Beijing, while China has repeatedly pressed Washington to halt such transfers. During Xi’s recent visit to Washington, Chinese state media said he urged Trump to oppose Taiwan independence.China’s foreign ministry did not confirm Perdue’s account. Spokesperson Guo Jiakun said Beijing had always strengthened its defence capabilities according to its needs and remained committed to maintaining world peace and stability.You use AI every day. Now get your AI Quotient. Take the AIQ test.