The prime minister, Anthony Albanese, is speaking in Adelaide.

He was just asked about any future cut to the fuel excise, but said the government would resist any measure that could increase inflation.

Albanese was also asked again about OpenAI, echoing his remarks yesterday that he spoke to the company’s Sam Altman and had a “constructive discussion”.

double quotation markOpenAI have been very constructive and open in engaging in that process. And I welcome that. … [AI] can provide revolutionary breakthroughs in health and research and science and innovation. But there are risks. And we’ve seen those risks exposed.

So we need to work this through. We see this as an opportunity, but we want to seize the benefit while mitigating the risks.

Albanese wishes Larissa Waters well as Greens leader steps down over ill health

Anthony Albanese says he has wished outgoing Greens leader Larissa Waters well after she announced she would step down to manage pre-existing kidney disease that has “declined significantly”.

Albanese said he had spoken with Waters and wished her “all the very best for the health issues that she’s dealing with”.

double quotation markWhen I spoke to her, you know, she was going off to see further health checks today. And I wish her well.

This is a job and a leadership position for a minor party means a lot of travel and a lot of pressure… she wasn’t in a position to be able to do that job going forward. But she intends to stay in the Senate.

Albanese said that, despite their political differences, he wished Waters “all the very best on a personal level”.

double quotation markI obviously have differences with the Greens political party, but this is a human issue. I can also have compassion and I have a good relationship with Larissa.

… I thank her for the constructive engagement that I’ve had with her. I work with people across the parliament. We have to do that in order to secure any legislation through our Senate. We haven’t always agreed and we won’t always agree going forward. But I wish her all the very best.

The prime minister, Anthony Albanese, is speaking in Adelaide.

He was just asked about any future cut to the fuel excise, but said the government would resist any measure that could increase inflation.

Albanese was also asked again about OpenAI, echoing his remarks yesterday that he spoke to the company’s Sam Altman and had a “constructive discussion”.

double quotation markOpenAI have been very constructive and open in engaging in that process. And I welcome that. … [AI] can provide revolutionary breakthroughs in health and research and science and innovation. But there are risks. And we’ve seen those risks exposed.

So we need to work this through. We see this as an opportunity, but we want to seize the benefit while mitigating the risks.

OpenAI promises new safeguards to reassure people ‘AI is being developed safely’

OpenAI said it has enacted multiple safeguards amid a slate of concerning incidents, including the Medicare website and the Hugging Face breaches.

The AI giant said it has new controls to block live internet access in research environments and pointed to its decision to pause training and evaluation involving tool use for its “most capable models”.

OpenAi said it would only resume training the models “when we are confident that we have additional safeguards in place, which we are working on now”.

double quotation markPeople want to know AI is being developed safely, and that starts with what companies like ours do ourselves. … In Australia, we are committing resources and expertise to support affected agencies and help defenders put these principles into practice.

OpenAI said it would provide dedicated support for affected agencies in Australia, funding and support to strengthen Australian cyber defences and the establishment of an Australian taskforce to develop “practical policy recommendations”.

double quotation markAustralia’s governments, industries, and citizens are and have been invaluable partners to OpenAI. We do not take this for granted, and we intend to make this right.

OpenAI’s chief strategy officer will fly to Australia from the US next week to appear before a joint select committee on artificial intelligence, just days after the prime minister confirmed one of its models hacked a Medicare website.

Jason Kwon will appear before the committee in Sydney on 6 October.

OpenAI said it was “sorry and working to do better in the future” in a lengthy blog post about the incident, writing:

double quotation markWe are setting out what we know, what we have changed, and what we will do to rebuild trust with the Australian people. This is a new kind of cyber incident which represents an emerging global challenge.

One of the ways we intend to take accountability for the situation is to be intentional in working with Australia to help develop practical approaches to how AI developers and governments identify, disclose, and respond to AI cyber 