CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Conflict of interest concerns follow CEC Gyanesh Kumar from Sambhal to the Supreme Court

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

‘It’s only a bye-poll’: SC refuses to advance hearing of Bengal SIR appeals

Rush Hour: Ujjain mosque demolition protest turns violent, SC’s 4-month deadline on TMC row & more

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar is facing scrutiny over key decisions taken without the knowledge and consent of fellow election commissioners, as revealed in an investigation by The Indian Express.

There are also questions of conflict of interest over relief granted to Kumar’s daughter, Noida District Magistrate Medha Roopam, by a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma. The judge’s son serves as standing counsel for the poll body in Madhya Pradesh, reported LiveLaw.

This is not the first time that concerns about conflict of interest have surfaced around Kumar and his family.

On May 7, 2024, video footage showed Muslim voters being forced out of several polling stations in Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, while the Lok Sabha election was underway.

Many of these voters were women, who told Scroll that police officials had assaulted them to prevent them from voting.

But the Election Commission did not act on these complaints. Instead, it came out in support of a statement by the returning officer and labelled the damning footage as “false” and “misleading”.

The returning officer overseeing the polls in Sambhal was district magistrate Manish Bansal – the son-in-law of Gyanesh Kumar, then serving as an election commissioner.

The poll body has two election commissioners apart from the Chief Election Commissioner. All decisions are required to be made collectively – when not unanimous, by a majority.

It is not clear whether Kumar recused himself from the deliberations on Sambhal in light of his personal relationship with the constituency’s returning officer.

Scroll has sent questions to the Election Commission and to Kumar, seeking comment. This story will be updated if we receive a response.

May 7 was the third phase of polling during the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.

In Sambhal, the contest was between Samajwadi Party’s Zia ur Rahman Barq and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Parmeshwar Lal Saini.

The first wave of violence came around 10 am, said Bano, 70, a voter in Ovari village. She was at the polling station when a car full of police officials jerked to a halt outside. The police lathi-charged the voters, who fled, she told Scroll the next day.

“It was a male policeman who beat me,” Bano said, showing her swollen right cheek and a bruised knee. “I have voted all my life but never seen anything like this.”

In nearby Shahbazpur village, Sakina, 38, recounted a similar assault. “When they started beating up the men, I kept standing there, thinking they wouldn’t possibly do the same to women,” she said. “But women were beaten up too.”

These allegations were corroborated by videos shared online and in reports by news websites such as The Quint, Newslaundry and Caravan.

In Ovari, a video showed voters running away from the booth, as police officials outside chase them away, hit them with lathis and snatch pieces of paper from their hands.

Another video shared by MLA Pinki Singh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party showed police officials lathi-charge voters inside the polling centre.

महोदय आपको अवगत करना चाहूंगी संभल लोकसभा क्षेत्र, असमौली विधानसभा में 07 मई वोटिंग के दौरान पुलिस प्रशासन द्वारा आम मतदाताओं के मौलिक अधिकारों एवं कर्तव्यों पर यह निर्मम हमला असंवैधानिक कृत्य है। निश्चय ही इस तरह की घटनाएं समृद्ध भारतीय लोकतंत्र के भविष्य को लेकर दुश्चिंता पैदा… pic.twitter.com/A5sHaowPCw

A video from nearby Shahbazpur polling centre showed women voters leaving the booth as dozens of police officials stood them with lathis. “They’re not letting them vote,” says the person recording the video. “They’re beating them and pushing them out.”

For @ECISVEEP. Video from Sambhal, May 7. It shows voters leaving the Shahbazpur polling centre in droves as dozens of police officers stand around.Person recording says officers beat up voters and didn't let them vote. #LokSabaElctions2024https://t.co/qYEAIETgFb pic.twitter.com/n9V2bXThob

Both these villages had voted overwhelmingly for the Samajwadi Party in previous elections, Election Commission’s official booth-level data shows.

The law is clear on the next steps in such situations. Section 