CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

Start the week with a film: ‘Collateral’ is one of the times when Tom Cruise isn’t Tom Cruise

Bastar village looks for truth and reconciliation as Maoist-police strife ends

Fiction: Brothers Cyrus and Rumi will carry their deep-rooted grudges from old Bombay to the new

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

A group of former bureaucrats on Monday demanded the resignation of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar for alleged irregularities in the conduct of special intensive revision of electoral rolls in the country.

In an open letter, the Constitutional Conduct Group said that the Election Commission’s functioning has become “imperious, autocratic and dictatorial” because of Kumar. It added that his actions around the SIR exercise represented “serious infringement” of constitutional functioning and legality.

On Saturday, the group had called on the Election Commission to scrap the special intensive revision of electoral rolls.

The letter came amid similar demands by the Opposition and civil society groups for Kumar’s removal over alleged irregularities in the functioning of the poll panel. The demands came after The Indian Express reported on Wednesday that two election commissioners had objected to decisions related to the SIR.

The newspaper’s investigation showed that Election Commissioners Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi had formally objected 14 times in 10 months to the poll panel’s decisions about the SIR, saying that some had been taken without their knowledge.

Their objections were reportedly related to the changes to Form 6, appeals against the inclusion of voters in West Bengal and the handling of voter data in Goa, among other matters. Form 6 is used to register new voters.

In one written objection, Sandhu was quoted as having stated that the poll panel had acted against the advice of both commissioners and described the action as “unauthorised and illegal”.

The two election commissioners had also raised concerns over access to the digital electoral roll database.

The retired bureaucrats also demanded amendments to the 2023 Chief Election Commissioner and Other Election Commissioners Act to “democratise” the selection process.

The Act states that the chief election commissioner and the two other election commissioners are appointed on the recommendation of a selection committee comprising the prime minister, a Union Cabinet minister and the leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha. This gives the government a 2:1 majority on the committee over the leader of the Opposition in case of a difference of opinion.

The group also demanded that the immunity given to the election commissioners should also be removed. Section 16 of the Act protects current and former election commissioners from civil and criminal proceedings for acts, things or words done or spoken in the discharge of their official duties.

Reiterating its earlier demand to scrap the SIR exercise, the group said the process had caused “untold trauma and anxiety” among citizens eligible to vote.

It accused the poll body of “weaponising” its constitutional powers by introducing the SIR and putting in place “unnecessarily complicated” procedures that enabled “large-scale manipulation” of electoral rolls.

It added: “The decision on SIR was reportedly conveyed on WhatsApp and there is no file on this in the ECI.”

The former bureaucrats alleged that the “incompetent, arbitrary, autocratic and unprofessional” implementation of the SIR could disenfranchise 15% to 16% of India’s electorate, particularly minorities, marginalised groups and the elderly, without providing quick avenues for redress.

While the group accused Kumar of violating the law governing decision-making in the Election Commission, it said the two other election commissioners were “not entirely blameless either”.

“They might have made objections internally to the CEC’s decisions, but they allowed SIR to be conducted in state after state, disenfranchising millions of voters, without speaking out,” the group said.

It also demanded that existing Electors Photo Identity Cards continue to be treated as valid, except where corrections are required for errors found during the revision process. It also urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision upholding the SIR.

The letter was signed by 74 people, including former Maharashtra Principal Secretary Sandeep Bagchee, former Chairman of the