CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Conflict of interest concerns follow CEC Gyanesh Kumar from Sambhal to the Supreme Court

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

‘It’s only a bye-poll’: SC refuses to advance hearing of Bengal SIR appeals

Rush Hour: Ujjain mosque demolition protest turns violent, SC’s 4-month deadline on TMC row & more

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

Fifty-six persons died and 46 were injured in Uttar Pradesh between Friday and Sunday as heavy rains battered the state, causing flooding and crop loss, reported The Indian Express.

Waterlogging caused by heavy rainfall had also led to more than one lakh persons being moved to relief camps in Odisha. Severe flooding was also reported in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region.

The toll in Uttar Pradesh from rain-related incidents is expected to rise as officials were compiling the data, state Relief Commissioner Hrishikesh Bhaskar Yashod was quoted as saying by the Hindustan Times.

The state received 66.5 mm of rainfall between Friday and Sunday, against the normal 7.6 mm for the period. Excessive rainfall was recorded in 56 of Uttar Pradesh’s 75 districts.

This led to more than 1,020 houses being damaged and 107 animals dying.

Among the districts, Farrukhabad recorded the highest above-normal rainfall at 7,385%, followed by Kannauj at 5,664%, Shahjahanpur at 4,408%, Hamirpur at 4,240% and Mahoba at 4,100%.

The Central Water Commission has stated that the water level in the Ghagra and Rapti rivers had risen at several monitoring stations, posing a risk of flooding in low-lying areas, reported The Indian Express.

Officials have been directed to assess the extent of crop damage.

In Odisha, more than one lakh persons have been moved from low-lying areas to over 500 relief centres after heavy rainfall caused flooding and waterlogging in 13 districts, PTI quoted unidentified officials as saying on Sunday.

In Balasore district alone more than 67,260 residents have been moved. Over 3.5 lakh residents of the district have been affected by the floods.

The news agency quoted Water Resources Department Chief Engineer Dilip Kumar Rout as saying that with 28 gates of the Hirakud Dam being opened, at least 10 tributaries of the Mahanadi river will swell.

This may cause waterlogging in Cuttack, Puri, Khurda, Jagatsinghpur and parts of Kendrapara districts.

Heavy rainfall because of cyclonic storm Arnab and with the gates of the Khatiguda and Muran dams being opened in neighbouring Odisha, severe flooding has been reported in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region, The Indian Express reported on Monday.

The state received heavy rainfall between Wednesday and Saturday. At least one person died after drowning, an unidentified official was quoted as saying.

“Several villages in the Bastar region across the seven districts have got cut off due to the rains,” a government official from Jagdalpur was quoted as saying by The Indian Express.

Across the state, nearly 5,000 persons were rescued, including 16 airlifted, between Friday and Saturday, reported PTI.

Amid the heavy rains in Dhamtari district, two persons were reported missing after being swept away in separate incidents. Two boys, aged 12 and 16, were swept away while bathing in the swollen Arpa river in Bilaspur district. The body of one of them was recovered late on Saturday.