On Monday evening, Satinderjeet Singh aka Goldy Brar, was added to the FBI list of top 10 most wanted fugitives by US authorities. The former Punjab resident is presently residing in Brampton, Canada, according to Indian government records. He is associated with the proscribed outfit Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) and is behind multiple killings such as that of singer Sidhu Moosewala, running an extortion racket and making threatening calls to pro-nationalist leaders while fueling terror acts in India.The Indian government maintains its own list of most wanted terrorists where Brar, aged 32, is listed at number 56. In India, fugitives are designated as terrorists under section 35 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. This section empowers the Central government to designate organisations and individuals as terrorists by adding their names to the Act’s first schedule, which contains the list of such names. Last updated in July 2026, the government’s records list 80 individuals as designated terrorists.ALSO READ | Gangster Goldy Brar added to FBI's 10 Most Wanted list with $1 million rewardHT looks at 10 of the most prominent names on the list, who are wanted in connection with a range of crimes, including terror attacks, narco-terrorism, arms smuggling, organised crime, hijacking and circulation of counterfeit currency. The individuals are based in Pakistan, the UK, Germany and the US, although the whereabouts of some remain uncertain.Maulana Masood AzharAlias: Maulana Mohammad Masood Azhar Alvi, Age: 58, Location: PakistanFounder, chief and key leader of Jaish-e-Mohammad. He was designated as a global terrorist by the United Nations under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 on May 1, 2019 and declared a Proclaimed Offender by the Special Judge (POTA), New Delhi. JeM under the patronage of Maulana Masood Azhar, extensively undertakes recruitment drives for terrorist activities and his preaching wings regularly organise events in order to urge people to promote terrorism and support their actions against India. He was once jailed in Delhi’s Tihar Jail between 1994–1999. Azhar has been charged in several terror attacks in India from the December 13, 2001 Parliament attack, the July 5, 2005 attack the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya, to the 2016 Pathankot air airbase attack and the February 14 ,2019 Pulwama attack on CRPF jawans. He also directed an attack on the Indian Consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif in Balk in Afghanistan on January 3, 2016. He was a close ally of Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden. The man was released in exchange for the passengers of the IC 814 Air India flight hijacked in December 1999. Hafiz Muhammad SaeedAliases: Hafiz Mohammad Sahib, Hafiz Mohaddad Sayid, Age: 76, Location: PakistanChief, founder and key leader of Lashkar-e-Taiba/Jamat-ud-Dawa. Another Pak based terrorist, who was also the architect of the 26/11 attacks in Mumbai. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also charged him in the 2025 Pahalgam terror attack in which 25 tourists and a pony operator were killed. The attack triggered a four-day armed conflict between India and Pakistan. While Saeed is the the chief of LeT, agencies have confirmed that he is also the leader of its proxy outfit, The Resistance Front (TRF). The TRF was active in J&K. Saeed too was designated as a global terrorist by the United Nations under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 on the 10th December, 2008. NIA has also charged him in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks case.ALSO READ | ‘Terrorist country asking me’: Jaishankar fires back at Pakistani reporter's attempts to heckle at UNGAZaki-ur-Rehman LakhviAlias - Abu Waheed Irshad Ahmad Arshad @ Kaki Ur-Rehman, Age: 76, Location: PakistanLakhvi is the chief operational commander of (LeT) and one of its founding members.In 2019 when Lakhvi’s name was added to the list of designated terrorists, the government had then pinned his involvement in the December 22, 2000 Red Fort Attack case, the 26/11 Mumbai attack, and the January 1, 2008 Rampur attack case among many other cases. Lakhvi along with Hafiz Saeed are facing trial in absentia in connection with their role in the Mumbai attacks. Designated by the United Nations as a global terrorist under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 on the 10th December, 2008. Accused in various cases registered and being investigated by the National Investigation Agency, such as include LeT Abu Jundal case and Udhampur terror attack on BSF convoy. Chargesheet has also been filed against him in 26/11 Mumbai terror attackDawood Ibrahim KaskarAlias -- Dawood Hasan Sheikh Kaskar, Age: 71, Location: PakistanThe former Mumbai resident, now hiding in Pakistan, runs an international underworld crime syndicate and is involved in perpetrating acts of terror, promoting religious fundamentalism, terror financing, arms smuggling, circulation of counterfeit currency, money laundering, narcotics, extortion and benami real estate