CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Conflict of interest concerns follow CEC Gyanesh Kumar from Sambhal to the Supreme Court

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

‘It’s only a bye-poll’: SC refuses to advance hearing of Bengal SIR appeals

Rush Hour: Ujjain mosque demolition protest turns violent, SC’s 4-month deadline on TMC row & more

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

The Jammu and Kashmir Assembly on Monday passed a resolution, moved by Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, seeking statehood for the Union Territory amid protests by Bharatiya Janata Party legislators, The Hindu reported.

While the Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party MLAs supported the move, the BJP legislators shouted slogans against it over its reference to the resolution passed by the Assembly in 2000.

In June 2000, the National Conference government led by Farooq Abdullah passed a resolution in the Assembly calling for restoration of greater autonomy to Jammu and Kashmir as it existed before August 1953. However, it was rejected by the then-Atal Bihari Vajpayee government at the Centre.

The text of the fresh resolution moved by Abdullah on Friday says that in addition to the resolutions passed by the Assembly in June 2000 and November 2024, the House was calling on the Union government to urgently restore Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood.

In November 2024, the Assembly passed another resolution calling for the restoration of the special status the erstwhile state had under Article 370 of the Constitution, which was abrogated by the Union government in August 2019.

On Friday, the chief minister said that the latest resolution neither replaced nor subsumed the Assembly’s previous decisions. It was merely for the Union government to restore Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood, he had said.

On Monday, Abdullah reiterated that the fresh resolution only sought support for restoring statehood and did not ask the Assembly to vote in favour of Article 35A or Article 370, The Hindu reported.

“Unfortunately, some of my own party leaders have come under their [BJP’s] trap,” the newspaper quoted him as saying.

Article 35A of the Constitution empowered the legislature of the erstwhile state to define its permanent residents. It also granted them certain privileges, including exclusive rights to purchase land and obtain government employment.

The BJP-led Union government abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to the erstwhile state, in August 2019. It also bifurcated the state into two Union territories: Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.