CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

Start the week with a film: ‘Collateral’ is one of the times when Tom Cruise isn’t Tom Cruise

Bastar village looks for truth and reconciliation as Maoist-police strife ends

Fiction: Brothers Cyrus and Rumi will carry their deep-rooted grudges from old Bombay to the new

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

The Supreme Court on Monday took suo moto cognisance of a spate of rape cases in Delhi, saying it underlined a “systematic failure” of the law enforcement authorities and the administration to guarantee basic public safety, Live Law reported.

At least 13 cases of sexual assault have been reported in Delhi this month, The Print reported.

These include the gang rape of a 17-year-old allegedly by three men who posed as police personnel in a park near Lady Shri Ram College on September 21.

On September 13, the body of a 16-year-old girl was found decomposed in Swaroop Nagar, two days after she was allegedly raped and murdered, The Hindu reported.

On August 4, a 17-year-old was gang raped by a bus driver and conductor inside a moving bus as it covered a distance of nearly 47 km from Greater Noida to Kashmere Gate without being checked at any police picket, The Indian Express reported.

On Monday, the bench of Justices JB Pardiwala and K Vinod Chandran said that they were distressed by these reports and highlighted the need to fix accountability.

While referring to the August 4 case, the bench said that “one cannot help but draw painful parallels to the Nirbhaya incident of 2012”.

On the night of December 16, 2012, six men raped and assaulted a 23-year-old physiotherapy student in a moving bus in Delhi. The woman succumbed to her injuries two weeks later at a hospital in Singapore. The gang rape, known as the Nirbhaya case, had triggered huge protests across the country.

Pardiwala said that the recent cases raise the question “of whether systemic law-enforcement mechanisms have made any meaningful progress in the decade since then”, Bar and Bench reported.

The bench observed that the right to live with dignity, free from the fear of violence, is an important aspect guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution that protects the fundamental right to life and personal liberty.

The court said that public spaces cannot be permitted to become “zones of high risk” because of inadequate illumination, poor surveillance and other preventable deficiencies, Bar and Bench reported.

Further, the judges said that statements made by the authorities and elected representatives expressing concern over such cases, fall short of providing accountability and addressing systemic problems.

“Expressing solidarity is not a solution to this social evil,” the court said.