CJP to start ‘jail bharo’ stir in Mumbai on October 2 as permission denied for protest against CEC

Beyond the myth of India’s Sanskrit-speaking villages, can the language anchor modern life?

What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

‘EC has become dictatorial’: Ex-bureaucrats demand CEC Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

Start the week with a film: ‘Collateral’ is one of the times when Tom Cruise isn’t Tom Cruise

Bastar village looks for truth and reconciliation as Maoist-police strife ends

Fiction: Brothers Cyrus and Rumi will carry their deep-rooted grudges from old Bombay to the new

‘I was interested in writing a character who believes in the reality of the dreamworld’: Avni Doshi

Lovely Professional University in Punjab’s Phagwara has suspended classes for 10 days starting Monday and postponed its mid-term examinations until further notice after students held a protest alleging that a girl had been raped on campus, reported Hindustan Times.

The protests turned violent on Sunday, with students damaging university property, setting some objects on fire and blocking the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway. In videos shared online, some protesters could be heard shouting “we want justice”.

The agitation had begun on Saturday when the students alleged that an “outsider working as a plumber” had entered the hostel room of a female student and raped her three days ago, reported The Indian Express. The protesting students claimed that the university administration had not taken action after the alleged sexual assault.

#WATCH | Phagwara, Punjab | Students leave for home as Lovely Professional University (LPU) suspends regular classes for 10 days from 28th September and postpones Mid-Term Examinations, following a protest by students that turned violent Early morning visuals from outside the… pic.twitter.com/sTsT6qe739

The institute’s Registrar Monica Gulati, on the other hand, claimed that the allegation of rape on campus “appears to be a deliberate and concerted attempt to malign the reputation of the university and tarnish its image”, reported The Indian Express.

“Certain anti-social elements are spreading completely false, baseless and fabricated rumours through social media and other channels, thereby creating unnecessary confusion among students and attempting to disturb the peaceful academic environment of the university,” said Gulati.

Meanwhile, the police have registered a first information report against an unknown person on charges of rape based on statements recorded from students. A Special Investigation Team has been formed to probe the matter.

Jalandhar Range Deputy Inspector General of Police Naveen Singla said that forensic data, security camera footage and phone records will be examined. “We have asked students’ representatives to be part of our investigation,” he said.

University Vice Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu said that the institute was cooperating with the investigation.

“So far, no such incident has come to my notice,” Sandhu was quoted as saying by The Indian Express.

In a social media post on Sunday evening, the university shared a video of three students who are purportedly staying in room number 504 of girls’ hostel 3, where the alleged assault was reported to have taken place.

The three students could be heard saying that no such incident had taken place in their room. They appealed to the police and fellow students not to repeatedly disturb them in the name of an investigation. They said that they would inform their parents if they were troubled further.

However, soon after, a separate video emerged on social media in which the same three students said they had been instructed on what to say and that their statements had been used without their knowledge or consent.

In its notice informing the students that classes had been suspended, the university said that if any of them wished to stay on the campus during this period, they “are advised to remain inside their hostels/places of residence and avoid unnecessary movement or involvement in any unrest activities in the interest of their own safety”.