Prominent Republicans joined Democrats to condemn president for lifting sanctions on Russian diesel and administration’s plan to livestream execution of Fort Hood attacker

Zelenskyy furious as Trump announces deal to buy Russian diesel

A number of prominent Republicans joined Democrats on Friday to condemn Donald Trump for lifting sanctions on Russian diesel and the plan to livestream the execution of the former army major who carried out the Fort Hood attack in 2009.

“Trump started a stupid & illegal war in Iran that has driven up diesel prices. Now he wants to bankroll Putin’s illegal war against Ukraine by buying diesel from him,” senator Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat, wrote in response to the news of Trump’s deal with Putin to lift sanctions and import Russian diesel. “One strategic disaster after the next.”

“70% of Americans support Ukraine,” congressman Don Bacon, a Nebraska Republican, chimed in. “Propping up Putin’s war economy is morally wrong as he uses that money to bomb cities. The President’s policies towards Russia and Ukraine are failures. We need moral clarity not moral ambiguity.”

“This announcement is a disgrace,” senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, wrote. “You know how Trump could bring down gas and diesel prices? By ending his illegal war with Iran. Instead, he’s going to help fund Putin’s war machine.”

Warren also joined her Democratic colleagues, Jeanne Shaheen, of New Hampshire, anf Chuck Schumer, of New York, in a statement denouncing Trump’s deal with Putin.

“President Trump’s announcement that the United States will allow global purchases of Russian diesel for six months, is a total betrayal of Ukraine, our European allies and American national security,” the Democratic senators wrote. “After launching a war with Iran that has spiked gas and diesel prices for every American, the President is resorting to desperate ‘deals’ with a murderous dictator to attempt to clean up his own mess.

“Through the Lindsey O. Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act, we gave the president significant authorities and leverage against China and Russia to bring Putin’s war to an end with a negotiated settlement,” congressman Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican posted on social media. “Unfortunately, while I understand the desire to bring down diesel prices, I am concerned the lifting of sanctions on Russian oil will only fund the Kremlin’s war machine—emboldening more violence and destruction, as we have seen in recent days.”

“Putin throws lifeline to try to save Trump in the midterms,” senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, wrote. “In return, American dollars go to Russia and get put toward killing innocent Ukrainians. Trump/Russia right out in the open.”

Congressman Don Beyer, a Virginia Democrat, agreed, writing: “Infuriating—but this is what we warned anyone who would listen: Trump isn’t the slightest bit trustworthy when it comes to Russia. Giving him expanded tariff powers in hopes he would use them to help Ukraine was a mistake. Now he’s *lifting* sanctions on Russian fossil fuels.”

“The Fort Hood shooting was a horrific act of violence that took 13 innocent lives and devastated military families,” senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, wrote. But there is a fundamental difference between carrying out a lawful sentence and turning an execution into a public spectacle.”

“Public executions are the hallmark of authoritarian regimes like Iran and North Korea, not the United States of America,” he added. “There is a reason that almost no countries in the world engage in this barbaric practice. Beyond the profound moral concerns, a public execution could hand terrorist organizations a propaganda victory, fuel radicalization, and put American service members, diplomats, and citizens overseas at greater risk.”

“Secretary Hegseth should seriously reconsider this decision,” congressman Tom Barrett, a Michigan Republican fighting to hold his seat in a tight race with progressive Democrat Will Lawrence, posted. “Nidal Hasan is an evil person ... That does not change the fact that our American values should strive to elevate human dignity. Making a public spectacle out of an already tragic situation is unnecessary and does not serve a public interest.”

“There is no need to livestream any execution, including this one,” senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican posted. “I would expect this from terrorists and dictators, but not here in America. It would give this individual, who deserves no further notoriety, the martyrdom he seeks. How we carry out justice matters just as much as the justice itself, so I urge the Pentagon to reverse this gruesome decision.

“I support bringing this terrorist to justice,” congressman Michael Baumgartner, a Washington Republican, wrote of the execution of the Fort Hood attacker. “I do not support the public livestream of the execution. This should be reconsidered.”

“Who still carries out public executions: The Iranian regi