Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

People unload barricades from a police vehicle ahead of a protest planned by the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) seeking the resignation of India's Chief Election Commissioner, Gyanesh Kumar, near Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, on October 9, 2026. | Photo Credit: Reuters

Despite the denial of permission from Delhi Police, the Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) released a poster that says “Final Call To Save Democracy”, asking its supporters to reach Jantar Mantar at 10 a.m. on Saturday (October 10, 2026) as they look to go ahead with the protest demanding the resignation of Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar and the rollback of the Special Intensive Revision of electoral rolls.

Also read | SC backs right to protest, says blanket transit ban in Delhi ‘over-reaching’

The Delhi Police on Friday (October 9, 2026) denied permission to the CJP to hold its proposed protest at Jantar Mantar on Saturday (October 10), citing alleged violations of conditions agreed upon for an earlier demonstration, even as authorities rolled out an extensive security plan across the national capital.

Also read | Police send notices to students, CJP supporters ahead of October 10 Delhi protest

Authorities have taken several measures ahead of the protest, including internet curbs in parts of Delhi, the shutting down of markets and Metro stations, and the cancelling dozens of trains bound for the capital. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) directed all States and Union Territories (U.T.s) to coordinate with the Delhi Police and take preventive measures to stop the movement of protesters towards Delhi.

As Delhi braces for a protest at Jantar Mantar by the CJP over the demand for the resignation of chief election commissioner, traffic diversions will be enforced from 6 am, with movement likely to be affected at 30 key points across Delhi, police said.

According to an advisory issued by the Delhi Traffic Police, the diversions will be enforced depending on the prevailing law and order situation. Commuters will face restrictions around Connaught Place, Mandi House, Jantar Mantar, Patel Chowk, and several other key intersections in Lutyens’ Delhi.

In light of the proposed protest, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has announced the closure of the following metro stations:

Ahead of the massive protest by the ​Cockroach Janta Party (CJP)​ alongside student organisations, social activists and farmer organisations on Saturday (October 10, 2026), authorities have clamped down with strict security measures and traffic restrictions across New Delhi.

Delhi braces for a massive CJP protest with 45 metro stations shut, trains cancelled, and 23,000 security personnel deployed.

As Delhi police authorities prepare to subdue a mass gathering, Cockroach Janta Party’s founder in a late night X post said he would be reaching Delhi by 9.30. a.m.

Mr. Dipke appealed to protesters to remain peaceful, saying that protest called on October 10 should not end even if he is detained or arrested. He said, “I will reach Delhi tomorrow morning, and I don’t know what will follow. But I am not afraid of detention, or UAPA Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or the National Security Act (NSA) charges. We are fighting for free and fair elections, and it cannot happen without the rollback of SIR and resignation of Gyanesh Kumar.”

“Even if I am detained, the protest should not end. Don’t make it (protest) around one person, make it around the Constitution of India.”

Protesters are still coordinating at what time they will be heading to the protest site, and are taking security into consideration, by planning to visit in smaller groups.

Some students said the curbs suggested that their protest was already gaining momentum.

Aditi, JNUSU president, who is currently on a hunger strike over various campus issues, said around 3,000 students had joined a protest from the campus on July 20, and they expected a similar turnout this time.

Late on Friday night, students say that they were being stopped by the police around the Jawaharlal Nehru University campus area, as they attempted to head to the protest site.

JNU campus gates were barricaded late at night, against which students then proceeded to protest.

NSUI Jamia Millia Islamia Secretary Ebin Basil said, “Four of our female friends who were stepping out in an Uber were detained by the police around 11.30 near Jamia, following which we went to the police station to ask why women are being detained at night. The police recognised me and another NSUI member by name and said that we were already on the list of preventative detentions. Because there were women students with us, who asked for our release, we were released at around 3 a.m.”

Follow live updates from The Hindu’s reporters on-ground, as despite denial of permission f