‘Dragged out of train’: Pune students detained while on way to Delhi protest against Gyanesh Kumar

‘Reporting Live’ review: A solid thriller about crusading journalism

Activist Umar Khalid wins international human rights defender award

Onions, sugar, rice: Why India’s food staples have gotten costly

Meta blocks viral video in post alleging that BJP candidate in Bengal bye-poll ‘looted votes’

True Story: Why Gyanesh Kumar’s exit may not end the rigging of Indian elections

Three FIRs against Rahul Gandhi for ‘assaulting police’ during protest demanding CEC resignation

Ground report: Muslim voters stopped, Opposition arrested, journalists blocked in Bengal bye-poll

From the biography: How social reformer Ayyankali fought for dignity and justice for Dalits

India on Friday said that the United States’ decision to suspend several information technology companies from the permanent labour certification programme goes against advancing the shared ambitions of the two countries.

Permanent labour certification is a process that employers must complete before filing petitions for most employment-based green cards. Under the programme, employers must establish that there are no qualified, willing and available US workers for a particular job.

Cognizant, Capgemini, Microsoft, Adobe and India-based information technology companies Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services, Wipro and HCL are expected to be affected by the Donald Trump administration’s decision.

The Indian external affairs ministry said that the permanent labour certification programme is different from the H-1B visa programme, which allows companies in the US to temporarily employ foreign workers for special occupations.

The suspension of permanent labour certification applications does not affect the validity of existing H-1B visas or the persons who hold the visa and their dependents, it said.

However, it said that there could be “some impact” on the Green Card process of eligible employees of the affected companies. A green card allows a foreign citizen to live and work permanently in the US.

Over the past few years, Indians have constituted the majority of H-1B visa holders. Indians comprised 71% of all H-1B visas issued by the US in the financial year 2023-’24.

The ministry further described US Vice President JD Vance’s remarks on the decision as “unwarranted”.

Vance, who announced the new measures with US Labor Secretary Keith Sonderling, said that the H-1B programme was meant to allow US companies to hire “the best of the best from outside the United States of America for positions that are completely impossible to fill with American workers”.

He added that companies should hire “great American workers” instead of “foreign indentured servants”.

New Delhi responded by saying that “such descriptions ignore the fact” that Indian professionals in the US are “highly educated and skilled contributors” to its economy and innovation ecosystem.

“Indeed, the history of the United States itself has been shaped by generations of immigrants whose labour, enterprise and innovation have contributed to its growth and prosperity,” the ministry said. “Resorting to terminology that carries painful historical and colonial legacy connotations is deeply offensive.”

The ministry also said that talent mobility “adds value” to both economies.

“While it creates opportunities for Indians, it equally helps US companies with cutting-edge talent, innovation, research, productivity, competitiveness and job creation, besides creating shareholder wealth in the US,” it added.