‘Dragged out of train’: Pune students detained while on way to Delhi protest against Gyanesh Kumar

‘Reporting Live’ review: A solid thriller about crusading journalism

Activist Umar Khalid wins international human rights defender award

Onions, sugar, rice: Why India’s food staples have gotten costly

Meta blocks viral video in post alleging that BJP candidate in Bengal bye-poll ‘looted votes’

True Story: Why Gyanesh Kumar’s exit may not end the rigging of Indian elections

Three FIRs against Rahul Gandhi for ‘assaulting police’ during protest demanding CEC resignation

Ground report: Muslim voters stopped, Opposition arrested, journalists blocked in Bengal bye-poll

From the biography: How social reformer Ayyankali fought for dignity and justice for Dalits

On Thursday night, Meta took down a viral video that purported to show Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Shankharav Sarkar going behind the screen of a polling booth where an electronic voting machine was placed during the bye-election for West Bengal’s Rejinagar Assembly constituency on October 6.

The video, posted by Golam Nabi Azad, the BJP’s principal opponent in the seat, was removed in compliance with a legal request from Indian authorities, according to a message that Meta overlaid on the post. The Aam Janata Unnayan Party leader in his Facebook post had described the bye-poll as an “unprecedented farce in the name of democracy”.

On Tuesday, Scroll reporters in Rejinagar witnessed the police turning away Muslim voters from some polling stations. Opposition workers alleged that they were intimidated in the lead-up to the vote and some independent journalists said that the social media pages through which they disseminated their videos had also been blocked.

When the results of the bye-election in Rejinagar were announced on Friday, Sarkar was declared the winner with 1,29,914 votes, while Azad received 54,098 votes. In Nandigram, the other constituency in West Bengal in which a bye-poll was held, Hasirani Rath of the BJP beat Milan Pradhan of the Congress by 1,22,753 votes.

The video posted by Azad purports to show BJP candidate Sarkar entering a library in Rejinagar’s Majlishpur village, where a polling station was set up on October 6. The clip shows him greeting voters in the queue with “Jai Shri Ram” and telling paramilitary personnel stationed there that he is “the BJP candidate”.

The video purports to show Sarkar going behind the screen of the booth, after which a beep is heard. The screen behind which the machine is placed identifies the polling station as “12 Majlishpur Rural Library” and the Assembly seat as “70 Rejinagar”.

According to the Election Commission’s model code of conduct, candidates can visit polling stations and inspect the process of voting if they have a valid pass. It is unclear from the video if the BJP leader was doing that on the day of the bye-election in Rejinagar.

On Friday afternoon, the West Bengal unit of the Congress party also posted the video on its X account, alleging that it depicted “vote chori” or vote stealing.

Want proof of VOTE CHORI? See it with your own eyes. 👇BJP candidate for Reginagar by-poll, Shankharv Sarkar, is seen CASTING HIS VOTE in Reginagar!Which is ILLEGAL.Why? Because he is NOT a voter of Reginagar.He is a voter of:Berhampore Assembly, Part No. 200, Serial No.… pic.twitter.com/QG0RyxRjKF

Former Chief Election Commissioner SY Quraishi told Scroll that candidates can, at best, look at the electronic voting machine from a distance, but cannot go up to it.

“Nobody can touch the machine except the voter,” he added. “If a candidate has any concerns about the machine, he can complain to the presiding officer. He can’t go to the machine and ‘test’ it himself.”

OP Rawat, another former chief election commissioner, shared his view.

Sarkar, the BJP candidate, did not respond to calls and messages seeking a clarification. Neither did Harshal Pancholi, the Madhya Pradesh cadre Indian Administrative Officer whom the Election Commission appointed as the general observer for the Rejinagar bye-poll. The article will be updated if they respond.

The controversy could have been settled if Sarkar had gone up to the electronic voting machine to cast his own vote.

In his election affidavit, Sarkar had stated that he was registered as a voter in the Baharampur Assembly constituency, about 31 km away from Majlishpur. Scroll cross-checked this with the final voter list for that seat published by the Election Commission in April, before the Assembly elections, and found his name on it.

Technically, it is possible that the BJP candidate shifted his vote from Baharampur to Rejinagar between April and October. But a search with his electors photo identity card number on the Election Commission’s portal for voters to find their names on the electoral roll shows that Sarkar is still a voter in Baharampur.

Lakshmi Pal, the booth-level officer who drew up the electoral roll for 12 Majlishpur Rural Library