A letter from Lahore for Abhijeet Dipke: We watch with wonder and longing

A former resident traces the history of the company town shoemakers Bata founded near Kolkata

‘Vadhandhi Season Two’ review: A juicy fleshing-out of the secrets hidden in skeletons

‘DC’ review: ‘Devdas’ gets a violent reimagining but fires blanks

Karnataka HC scraps detention of school bus driver accused of being undocumented Bangladeshi migrant

‘Operation Safed Sagar’ review: A soaring tribute to tactical brilliance

How Abhijeet Dipke created a broad-based idea of politics that put the BJP on the backfoot

The dark side of the booming Indian market for weight-loss drugs

For children: ‘Mayamata’, the ancient Sanskrit text that provides lessons on good architecture

UP: Muslim driver dies four days after being assaulted by kanwariyas following road accident

Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Türkiye on Friday signed a joint defence agreement on Friday, amid the conflict in West Asia.

India said that it was “closely following” the new defence pact.

The Makkah Joint Defence Agreement, is aimed at “strengthening collective deterrence” and states that an armed attack against any one of the three countries would be considered an attack against all.

It also seeks to enhance defence cooperation among the three countries and promote peace, security and stability in the region and beyond.

However, the agreement does not specify detailed military commitments or obligations that have been accepted, Reuters reported.

An unidentified Turkish official told the news agency that the pact was “purely defensive in nature” and was not directed against any particular country.

The official added that the pact was open to other regional countries and would not replace existing bilateral or multilateral defence arrangements.

The agreement was signed by Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

It came against the backdrop of heightened tensions in West Asia amid conflict involving Iran, Israel and the United States.

The pact brings together three major Sunni Muslim-majority states: Saudi Arabia, the Gulf’s strongest economy, one of the world’s top oil exporters and home to Islam’s holiest sites, Pakistan, the only nuclear-armed Muslim-majority country and Türkiye, which has North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s second-largest military.

The agreement builds on longstanding defence ties between the three countries. Pakistan has maintained military cooperation with Saudi Arabia for decades, while Turkiye and Pakistan have expanded defence cooperation in areas including military equipment and training, Al Jazeera reported.