Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Friday said the BJP government had received a "rude wake-up call" amid recent developments involving protests and electoral outcomes. He said the growing engagement of Gen Z and Gen Alpha with political issues reflected a changing landscape that parties could not ignore.

“I think the party in power certainly got a rude wake-up call… We've seen not only the cockroach protests and the resignation of a minister and a bill being passed in some haste because of all of this, but we are also seeing now two by-elections, one by people, in the case of Prashant Kishor, winning a very safe BJP seat that they've won for over three decades, nine times they've won that seat, they've now lost it, and Congress holding onto a seat in Madhya Pradesh, Datia, which is... these are both Hindi heartland states,” he told reporters.

Also read | Anti-Baghel chants, clashes mar Congress’ poll meet in Ludhiana

Tharoor said the results of the recent Bankipur bypoll indicated that political trends were changing even in areas considered strongholds. Referring to Prashant Kishor's victory, he highlighted that the Bankipur seat in Bihar held by the BJP for several decades had changed hands. He also pointed to Congress retaining the Datia seat in Madhya Pradesh.

Tharoor said that the upcoming electoral cycle could provide opportunities for the Congress.

Also read | Rahul Gandhi's 'Chhatron ki Goonj' event gets go-ahead in Prayagraj day after nod denied

"I believe there is a good chance; we fortunately have in our system these different elections at different times, already next March there'll be a few states coming into play where the Congress can be very much capable of winning those states…"

From a big zero for his Jan Suraaj Party in the 2025 Bihar assembly polls to a breakthrough win on his own electoral debut, Prashant Kishor has pulled off a swift political turnaround in less than a year. His Bankipur bypoll victory on August 3 ended the BJP's three-decade hold over one of its strongest bastions in Bihar.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More