SIR: Telangana poll chief orders action against persons misusing Form 7 to delete eligible voters

Process of deleting citizens as voters ‘intrinsically arbitrary’, says SC judge amid SIR concerns

One-party election: BJP looks to sweep Nandigram with help from police and Trinamool turncoats

Rahul Gandhi, 50 MPs detained during protest near EC office demanding Gyanesh Kumar resignation

In a new book, hotelier Nakul Anand explains how to handle customer complaints

How El Niño is causing droughts in parts of the world and floods elsewhere

Bangladesh measles outbreak claims 900 lives – and serves as warning for why vaccination matters

Explainer: Why the Election Commission’s Form 6 for new voters has triggered a legal row

For children: Moyna’s happy world in the Sunderbans begins to shift after her father disappears

The Nobel Prize in Physics was on Tuesday awarded to Belgian physicist Francis Halzen for the discovery of high-energy neutrinos of astrophysical origin and his contributions to the IceCube Neutrino Observatory.

Halzen, 82, is a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in the United States.

“His vision and scientific leadership have been fundamental for the IceCube Neutrino Observatory – a cubic kilometre of ice that is equipped with light sensors,” the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said.

The observatory is near the South Pole in Antarctica. Using the observatory, researchers “can capture neutrinos from extremely energy-rich processes in the distant universe”, the academy added.

Halzen first presented his vision for capturing neutrinos at the South Pole in 1988. When a neutrino collides with an atomic nucleus, it produces a flash of light that can be tracked by sensors in the glacial ice.

He will receive a prize amount of 12 million Swedish krona, or Rs 11.5 crore.

On Monday, the Nobel Prize in medicine was jointly awarded to three scientists – Peter Hegemann, Georg Nagel and Karl Deisseroth – for their research on brain activity.

The Nobel Prize in chemistry will be announced on Wednesday, literature on Thursday and for peace on Friday. The prize in economics will be announced on October 12.