Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Lok Sabha LoP Rahul Gandhi during the INDIA bloc-led protest march from Parliament House to Nirvachan Sadan, demanding Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar's resignation over the alleged irregularities in the electoral roll, New Delhi on Tuesday, October 6, 2026. | Photo Credit: Sushil Kumar Verma

As the INDIA bloc, led by Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi, sat on a more than eight-hour ‘dharna’ on Tuesday (October 6, 2026), the Election Commission of India (ECI) said that the Opposition parties had demanded a meeting with the full Commission at a venue outside the ECI premises, which was “unusual” and therefore “could not be accepted”.

The ECI said it had offered to send its senior-most officer on duty to the proposed meeting venue to receive the memorandum of the MPs, which in itself would have been an “unprecedented” step. However, this offer was also declined by the protesting leaders.

In an official statement issued after Mr. Gandhi was detained from his protest site inside Akashvani Bhavan, the headquarters of All India Radio in the national capital, the poll body said it had learnt through the media till 4 p.m. that some Members of Parliament wished to meet the Commission along with their delegation during a march by certain political parties towards the ECI.

“With regard to today’s developments, it is clarified that, till 4.00 p.m. today, no political party, through its representatives, had sought an appointment for a meeting with the Election Commission,” it said.

However, at around 4.00 p.m., information was received from Delhi Police that a delegation of MPs, led by Mr. Gandhi, wished to meet the Commission and submit a memorandum.

Following this, when the Election Commission was considering the request, it was informed by the DCP, Delhi Police, that the delegation comprised 240 MPs and that the proposed venue was the Parliament House Annexe. “The Election Commission considered this request as unusual and therefore, could not be accepted, as, in accordance with ECI protocol, such meetings are held only on the premises of the Election Commission of India,” the statement said.

The ECI said it instead offered to send its senior-most officer on duty to receive the memorandum, but the offer was rejected by the Opposition MPs.

The statement further said that in 2025, the ECI had laid down a procedure for meetings with political parties. All political parties had been informed of the same.

Under the procedure, whenever a delegation of a political party or a joint delegation of several parties wishes to meet the Commission, it seeks an appointment through its duly authorised representative. The meeting is thereafter held at a time mutually agreed upon, the ECI said.

Election Commission of India / Special Intensive Revision of electoral rolls / Indian National Congress

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.