The Election Commission of India on Tuesday rejected a meeting proposal with Opposition MPs, citing their demands as “unusual and unacceptable”. The poll body also clarified that it had received no request from any political party for a meeting beforehand, and had intimated about it by the Delhi Police at around 4 pm.

The poll body's statement comes after over 300 Opposition MPs of the INDIA bloc began a march from Parliament Complex to the Election Commission office, in a bid to meet with the Election Commissioners and hand over a formal memorandum to them.

Rejecting the Opposition's request on grounds of “protocol”, the Election Commission said any political party can request a meeting with the poll body at any time through the established procedure. “The Commission may schedule the date and time for such a meeting based on convenience,” ECI said.

ALSO READ: Form 6 row: How an ECI order reached Supreme Court | Timeline

The Election Commission of India, while declining to meet with Opposition MPs on Tuesday, citing a procedure established in 2015. It said that the poll body had a protocol for such meetings with political parties. “All political parties have been informed of this and adhere to this process,” the ECI said in its statement.

It said that under this process, whenever a delegation from a single political party or a joint delegation of political parties wish to meet the Commission, they must request an appointment through their “duly authorized representative.” The meeting takes place thereafter at a time mutually agreed upon by both parties, the ECI stated.

ALSO READ: Congress shares video of Rahul's ‘dhappa’ as he enters Akashwani Bhawan to reach ECI office amid INDIA bloc march

In its statement, the ECI said it had initially considered meeting with the Opposition after being informed that the MPs wished to meet the Election Commissioners.

However, it said that the Deputy Commission of Police later informed the poll body that the meeting would involve 240 MPs from the Opposition and was proposed to be held at the Parliament Annexe, a demand deemed by the ECI as “unusual and unacceptable.”

The poll body said that protocol dictates that such meetings take place inside Election Commission premises. The ECI added that while it had also proposed sending its most senior serving official to the meeting venue to receive the Opposition's memorandum, this was rejected by the INDIA bloc MPs. It said that this step “would have been unprecedented in itself.”

“The ECI respects the country's parliamentary and democratic processes, as well as its own protocols and conventions, which are of utmost importance,” the poll body added.

Arya Mishra is a Content Producer at Hindustan Times, based in New Delhi, and a key member of the digital news team focusing on urgent breaking developments across India and the world. With a sharp editorial instinct and strong reporting skills, Arya covers high-impact crime incidents, public safety and justice issues, political developments, education policy and international affairs, consistently delivering clear, accurate and timely journalism. Her recent reporting highlights include detailed coverage of serious criminal cases, politics as well as analyses of national education reforms and international diplomatic moves. On the world news front, she has written about global trade policy changes and security developments, including tariff shifts by the United States and strategic counter-terrorism strategies being rolled out by Ministry of Home Affairs. Arya thrives in fast-paced environments – running live blogs, crafting in-depth explainers and real-time news coverage that keeps readers informed as stories evolve. Before joining Hindustan Times, she was a part of The Indian Express online team. Outside the newsroom, she is an avid reader, with a love for thriller and suspense fiction, and enjoys music as a way to unwind. With more than three years of experience in dynamic newsrooms, Arya brings curiosity, clarity and commitment to every story she covers.Read More