SIR: Telangana poll chief orders action against persons misusing Form 7 to delete eligible voters

Process of deleting citizens as voters ‘intrinsically arbitrary’, says SC judge amid SIR concerns

Explainer: Why the Election Commission’s Form 6 for new voters has triggered a legal row

One-party election: BJP looks to sweep Nandigram with help from police and Trinamool turncoats

Rahul Gandhi, 50 MPs detained during protest near EC office demanding Gyanesh Kumar resignation

In a new book, hotelier Nakul Anand explains how to handle customer complaints

Why an anonymous X post about anti-caste readings got the PMO’s attention

‘Are they above the Assembly?’ Why Jammu and Kashmir politicians are up in arms against bureaucrats

How El Niño is causing droughts in parts of the world and floods elsewhere

The Delhi Police on Tuesday detained Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi after they held a sit-in protest for more than seven hours at a site near the Election Commission headquarters.

Around 250 persons, including 50 MPs, had been detained, PTI quoted the police as saying. This was the second time during the day that the leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha was detained.

The Opposition MPs had begun the sit-in protest at the Akashvani Bhawan in the afternoon after they were released following a brief detention during an INDIA bloc march to demand Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar’s resignation.

The Akashvani Bhawan is the office of the All India Radio and is located next to the Election Commission headquarters.

The Opposition’s march came as protests are being held in several parts of the country calling for Kumar to resign over concerns about the functioning of the Election Commission and its handling of the special intensive revision of electoral rolls.

The march on Tuesday started from Parliament complex and was stopped by the Delhi Police about half a kilometre away on Parliament Street before the demonstrators could reach the poll panel’s office.

Gandhi was among several Opposition MPs who were briefly detained.

After being released, he and other Congress leaders entered the premises of the Akashvani Bhawan in an attempt to reach the poll panel’s headquarters.

The Election Commission said that no political party had sought an appointment for a meeting till 4 pm on Tuesday. The police informed it after 4 pm that a delegation of Opposition MPs, led by Rahul Gandhi, wanted a meeting with the commission, it said.

The poll panel said that it was informed by the police after 4 pm that around 240 MPs were seeking a meeting at Parliament House Annexe. The Election Commission said it “considered this request as unusual” and could not accept it as such meetings are held only on the poll panel’s premises according to its protocol, it added.

The commission said that it proposed to send its senior-most officer on duty to receive a memorandum from the Opposition parties, but the offer was declined by the MPs.

Other Opposition leaders including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Trinamool Congress (Mamata Banerjee faction) leader Abhishek Banerjee and Shiv Sena (Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray) MP Sanjay Raut participated in the march.

ये मत समझना भूल जाएंगेवक्त बदलेगा-हिसाब होगा pic.twitter.com/Xh53kO7xlE

As the march began, Gandhi held a placard that said: “Gyanesh, it’s done bro!”

Gyanesh, it’s done, bro.Time to resign.#IndiaAllianceMarch pic.twitter.com/9ZB6aJfakl

During the sit-in protest, Gandhi said that about 300 Opposition MPs wanted to meet Kumar and the election commissioners, but they were stopped.

“We represent the people of the country, we are their voice,” he told reporters. “We are not being allowed to go to the Election Commission’s office...300 MPs want to meet Gyanesh Kumar, but they are scared.”

If the Election Commission does not meet the MPs who represent the people, “then what is the meaning of democracy?” he asked.

He further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat and Kumar had “destroyed” the country’s democracy.

Rahul Gandhi said that the country has been “hijacked” by Modi, Shah and Bhagwat with Kumar’s help, and action will be taken against all of them. “What has been done to our country is called treason and nobody is going to escape,” he added.

The RSS is the parent organisation of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.

Biju Janata Dal, which is not part of the Opposition alliance, said that it will join the INDIA bloc’s march, PTI reported.

The Aam Aadmi Party and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam did not participate in the march.

Also read: SIR explained: Why the voter role revision has become so controversial

Since the exercise began in June 2025, the SIR has faced questions about the manner and pace of its implementation, amid concerns that it could deny genuine electors their right to vote and shape election outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court uphel