Eclipse witnessed by tens of millions across western Europe as enthusiasts gather along path of totality

Cruise ships, quiet towns and an all-day festival: millions flock to eclipse viewing spots across Europe

Thank you for following today’s special solar eclipse with us on Europe Live.

But, but, but… before you go, make sure to save the date: the next total eclipse seen from the UK, France and mainland Europe will be in September 2081.

For a selection of the best photos from today’s eclipse, you can browse this gallery by our picture desk:

“It was one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever seen in my life,” Sara García Alonso, a reserve astronaut for the European Space Agency, told broadcaster RTVE. “It gave me goose bumps.”

Standing next to her, the astronaut Pablo Álvarez Fernández nodded in agreement:

“It had been described to me so many times, but it was much more beautiful than what I had expected.”

Strangers shared picnics, drinks and eclipse glasses, which had been very tricky to source in Cornwall.

The wind picked up as the eclipse took hold and the temperature, which had reached the 30s during the day, plunged.

Gulls stopped circling and landed on the surface of the water. A trio of choughs – Cornwall’s national bird – hopped around on the hillside, looking a little less graceful than usual. The swallows that had been whizzing around the thatched cottages rested for a while.

Mary Bendall had positioned herself on a rock near the coastguard station with a complicated setup involving a filter over a scope that she uses to watch wildlife and her iPhone.

She watched the total eclipse in 1999 with her daughter, who now works in physics, having been inspired by the experience.

“I have just spoken to her – she’s in Spain. It’s cloudy there so we may be having the best of it,” Bendall said.

Mother and daughter Lisa and Janet Grenfell, 53 and 79, plonked their camp chairs on the front and took it all in. “We remember the total eclipse in 1999 but it was cloudy. This is beautiful.”

Jasmine Owen and Rory Smith arguably had the best seat in the house – a table overlooking the ocean where they tucked into fish and chips.

What was better? The supper or the eclipse? Owen did not hesitate:

double quotation mark“The chips are great, the eclipse amazing.”

It’s not often I have been able to share my telescope obsession with strangers – or indeed any other people at all, other than my long-suffering partner.

It can be a bit of a weird and inward hobby, involving a lot of fiddling around with eyepieces in the dead of night while covered in dew – and of course it’s basically pointless in London, where the light pollution makes amateur astronomy a bit like the equivalent of going for a swim in a car park.

So seeing an impromptu crowd of all ages gather in Brunswick Park, south London, asking to take a look through the scope at the eclipse, which reached 92% totality here, was a wonderful experience.

We met dozens of new neighbours, of all ages – not least Ludmila, a Ukrainian woman in her 70s, who was the first person standing in the park when we arrived and revealed she’d worked at an observatory in Crimea for 30 years. “What a surprise to find an actual refractor,” she said of the telescope. “It’s like a wonderful gift.”

The real highlight, however, was all of the creative ways people experimented with seeing the eclipse. Some held up colanders, another a spatula with holes, another a makeshift pinhole camera made of old candy boxes. One guy used a volcanic rock with a little hole in it.

Later, as the eclipse passed its zenith and the sun began to set for real, we stayed up to drink beer on picnic blankets and swap photos – strangers no longer.