The eclipse was visible across parts of Europe, with large crowds gathering in Spain, Iceland, France and the UK to watch the rare spectacle.

Alejandro Cuesta, a 30-year-old nanoscience researcher, called it "incredible ... I almost burst into tears. I got chills all over my body," he said.

"It was magnificent ... the most beautiful thing I've seen in my entire life."The eclipse - a first in mainland Europe since 2006 - cast its shadow through parts of Greenland, racing south to smother Keflavik, some 50km from Iceland's capital, Reykjavik, before arcing across the Atlantic Ocean towards northern Spain.Reykjavik had not seen a total solar eclipse since 1433, with the next one not due until 2196.

In Spain, the lunar shadow moved diagonally in a narrow path from the northern coast to the Balearic Islands, where tourists and locals, many dressed in swimming costumes accessorised with protective glasses, gathered to watch on the beach.

Supplies of special viewing glasses were in high demand, as a partial eclipse was visible across Europe, as well as in Canada, the northern United States and northwest Africa.

On the summit of the Pic du Midi, in the French Pyrenees, heavy clouds parted minutes beforehand, allowing visitors to see the spectacle, which also drew crowds in London, Paris and across the continent.

There were fears that rain could spoil the occasion in the Westfjords region of northwest Iceland.

But tens of thousands of tourists and locals were rewarded as the country - known for its rugged landscape of active volcanoes, lava fields, glaciers and the Northern Lights occasionally above - went dark.

Glenn Rosa, a 44-year-old retail manager from Houston, Texas, said he shed "a tear or two" when the darkness passed over Keflavik and its lighthouse.

"It was an amazing experience," he said, while Mylisha Lanegan, a 34-year-old teacher from Washington state in the United States, said it was "almost indescribable".

Clear skies helped visibility in Spain, although there were concerns due to high temperatures and the continued risk of wildfires.

Eclipse fever had gripped Spain, with government predictions that nearly 450,000 extra tourists could bring a 347-million-euro (US$400 million) boost to the economy.

Interior Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska said nearly 25,000 police officers had been mobilised to ensure the event goes off without a hitch.

"The path of totality is very narrow. It's only a couple of hundred kilometres wide," British astrophysicist and science communicator Graham Jones told AFP Tuesday from Fontanil de los Oteros in northern Spain.

"That's what's so special about Spain. The path of totality really goes across the Spanish peninsula."

Another total eclipse will cross southern Spain and northern Africa in August 2027, while an annular eclipse - when the Moon is not big enough to completely blot out the Sun, creating a so-called "ring of fire" - is due to visit the Iberian Peninsula in 2028.

Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox

Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories

Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app

We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.

To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.