Donald Trump says Leavitt is leaving to spend more time with her family and would become one of his ‘top outside advisors’

Karoline Leavitt will step down as White House press secretary

Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, will leave her role at the end of this month to spend more time with her family, including her two young children, Donald Trump announced today.

The president said on social media that it was a “decision I totally understand and respect”, while adding that Leavitt would become one of his “top outside advisors” when she leaves the administration.

Leavitt was 27 when she assumed the role of press secretary at the beginning of Trump’s second term. She is the youngest person in US history to hold the role. She was previously a press aide during the first Trump administration, before launching an unsuccessful bid for a US House seat in New Hampshire, her home state.

“Karoline has been a real leader in the White House, and has done a phenomenal job fighting for Justice, Liberty, and Freedom, since 2018,” Trump wrote on Truth Social.

Leavitt gave birth to her second child, a daughter, in May of this year, and recently returned from parental leave.

The White House said that Donald Trump signed a national security presidential memorandum (NSPM) on ⁠Wednesday aimed at empowering federal law enforcement to ⁠use cyber tools against transnational criminal organizations that operate in foreign ⁠jurisdictions to attack Americans.

Trump signed the memorandum directing ‌his administration to “leverage ‌the capability and innovation of the private ‌sector to help conduct these cyber operations under the direction, control, and authority of” the US government, the White House said in a fact sheet.

The White House cited ransomware attacks, financial frauds and other ​crimes run by foreign-based organized criminal organizations. The memo creates a framework that encourages private sector companies to enter into agreements with ⁠other private entities, as well as federal, ​state, ​local, tribal and territorial ​agencies, to gather threat information ​on transnational criminal ‌organizations and ​propose ​cyber operations to address those threats, the White House added.

When Karoline Leavitt appeared in the White House briefing room for the first time as press secretary, on 28 January 2025, she adhered to what was then a longstanding tradition and called on the Associated Press to ask the first question.

Zeke Miller, then the AP’s White House correspondent, asked Leavitt what he called “a question that we’ve asked your predecessors of both parties in this job”.

“When you’re up here in this briefing room speaking to the American public, do you view yourself and your role as speaking on, advocating on behalf of the president, or providing the unvarnished truth? That is, you know, not to lie, not to obfuscate to the American people?”

“I commit to telling the truth from this podium every single day,” Leavitt replied. “I would like to point out, while I vow to provide the truth from this podium, we ask that all of you in this room hold yourselves to that same standard.

“We know for a fact there have been lies that have been pushed by many legacy media outlets in this country about this president, about his family, and we will not accept that,” she went on. “We will call you out when we feel that your reporting is wrong or there is misinformation about this White House.

“So, yes, I will hold myself to the truth, and I expect everyone in this room to do the same.”

Just five minutes later, Leavitt told the assembled reporters, and the American people, a wildly false story to justify Trump’s sweeping order to freeze federal funding by citing what she called important new research from Elon Musk’s “department of government efficiency” (or Doge), and the office of management and budget (OMB).

“Doge and OMB also found that there was about to be 50m taxpayer dollars that went out the door to fund condoms in Gaza,” Leavitt claimed. “That is a preposterous waste of taxpayer money. So that’s what this pause is focused on: being good stewards of tax dollars”.

While Leavitt did not offer any evidence to support this claim, and was not pressed to by reporters in the room, the idea that the United States government had budgeted $50m to send condoms to Gaza quickly went viral, with an assist from Musk and the Fox pundit Jesse Watters, who claimed that day that the condoms were being used by Hamas militants as balloons to float explosives into Israel.

However, as the Guardian reported later that day, a comprehensive report issued in September 2025 by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), showed that not a penny of the $60.8m in contraceptive and condom shipments funded by the US in the past year went to Gaza. In fact, no condoms were sent to any part of the Middle East, and just one small shipment, $45,680 in oral and injectable contraceptives, had been sent to the region, all of it di