A 32-year-old woman, who had been trapped under rubble for 36 hours following the 7.4-magnitude quake which shook western Colombia, has been rescued alive.

Daniela Largo was pulled from beneath a collapsed building in the city of Pereira after a 10-hour-long rescue operation.

Firefighters finally managed to reach her via a tunnel they dug below four concrete slabs under which she had been buried.

At least 241 have died in the quake, according to official figures, with 3,700 injured and hundreds still missing.

In Pereira, a city in Colombia's coffee-growing region, 79 people are confirmed to have died, the second-highest number after Cali, where 95 are dead, according to figures by the Association of Colombian Capital Cities (Asocapitales).

Largo's mother told AFP news agency that a local resident had heard her daughter cry out for help from beneath the rubble.

Once emergency workers had arrived at the site, they were able to locate Largo with the help of a small camera.

However, her rescue was complicated by the fact that four heavy concrete slabs were blocking the way.

Local firefighters aided by colleagues deployed from the capital, Bogotá, and the disaster response team of the national police force had to dig two tunnels to reach her.

Through one opening, dug from above, they were able to provide Largo with oxygen. But it was only through a second tunnel, dug from below, that they were able to free her.

Colombian President Abelardo de la Espriella celebrated her rescue on social media, describing it as "news which fills us with hope".

Largo's mother said that "at home, her 12-year-old son is waiting for her".

In Pereira, at least 92 buildings collapsed. Fifteen people are known to be trapped and another 37 have been reported missing, according to Asocapitales.

In Cali, Colombia's third most populous city, more than 200 people remained trapped as of 16:00 local time on Tuesday.

Brother of man trapped under rubble in Colombian quake clings on to hope

The city's mayor declared a night-time curfew and said that soldiers would be on patrol in the worst-hit areas of Cali.

"We need to ensure that the rescue work can be carried out safely," he said, adding that there was still hope of finding more people alive and everyone would do their utmost to free those trapped.

The 7.4-magnitude quake struck at 07:34 local time (12:34 GMT) on Monday.

It had its epicentre near the village of San José del Palmar, in Chocó province, but could be felt across a vast area.

Seismometers nearest the epicentre registered shaking lasting between 90 seconds and two minutes.

Rescuers scramble for survivors with 180 dead in Colombia earthquake