Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Under N. Chandrasekharan, the Tata group expanded its aviation presence through the acquisition of Air India with a bold attempt to build a global airline out of India. File | Photo Credit: Reuters

Natarajan Chandrasekaran, the chairman of Tata Sons, who announced his exit from the position at the end of his tenure in February next, will be known for giving new directions to the Tata Group and putting big bets on high technology-oriented businesses after taking over the reins in 2017.

The technocrat who helmed Tata Consultancy Services for eight years before getting selected to lead the group under challenging circumstances, steered the conglomerate through unchartered territories making massive investments in semiconductors, electronics manufacturing, consumer Internet platform, mobile technology and battery giga-factories, which are new for the salt-to-software group.

It was under him that the Tata group expanded its aviation presence through the acquisition of Air India with a bold attempt to build a global airline out of India.

Of course, as the first non-Parsi to lead the Group, he had the complete backing of his mentor former Tata Sons Chairman & Tata Trusts chairman Ratan Tata till the latter’s death in October 2024.

After the sudden ouster of former Tata Sons Chairman Cyrus Mistry following a boardroom battle, Mr. Chandrasekaran, joined the board of Tata Sons in October 2016 and appointed chairman in January 2017 after a selection committee ratified his candidature.

“At that time, he was the most successful CEO of the Tata Group and was the natural choice,” said a Tata Group veteran who was a part of the selection committee.

Before becoming the Chairman of Tata Sons, he was the Chief Executive of TCS, a company where he started as a trainee in 1987 and served for 30 years, including eight years as CEO, until 2017.

Under his leadership, TCS became the country’s most valuable company, and he led it’s growth in overseas markets amid adverse conditions.

If Mr. Ratan Tata consolidated the Group’s position in key businesses through significant international acquisitions and increased Tata Sons’ holding in Group companies apart from keeping a tight control over the conglomerate, Mr. Chandrasekaran would be known for ensuring synergy, simplicity and scale through his “One Tata” strategy.

He was seen driving transformation of the Tata group towards a sustainable future.

Considered very close to Mr. Ratan Tata, he is believed to have come in the crossfire from the internal squabble in Tata Trusts that controls 66% of Tata Sons’ holding and takes key decisions on the running of the holding company.

Noel Tata, the half-brother of Ratan Tata, became chairman of Tata Trusts in October 2024 soon after his brother’s passing away and since then, the regime change had it’s effects on the affairs at both Tata Trusts and Tata Sons.

While many of Mr. Ratan Tata loyalists quit from both Tata Trusts and Tata Sons some more were likely to exit soon, according to Tata Group insiders.

The departure of Mr. Chandrasekaran is due to lack of clarity on his extension is part of this.

In his statement issued on Wednesday he had stated that though his third five-year term from February 2027 was cleared by Tata Trusts and the nomination & remuneration committee of Tata Sons approved of it, one board member [Noel Tata] did not support it, leading to uncertainties.

Mr. Chandrasekaran was reportedly tasked to find a way for not listing Tata Sons as demanded by the Shapoorji Pallonji Group which has about 18% stake in Tata Sons and as per RBI norms.

He was also required by the board to reduce the losses at several companies which were bleeding the group, including Air India and Tata Digital.

For almost 10 years he piloted the Group amidst several challenges, including the Air India plane crash, cyberattack at JLR and cash burn at Tata Nue to name a few, and had to go leaving an unfinished agenda through he was all set to continue for five more years.

By announcing his exit six months ahead of the end of his tenure, he, someone who had worked with the group for nearly 40 years, demonstrated his loyalty to the group which can find his successor well in time to fill the position.

Born in 1963, Mr Chandrasekaran is a Bachelor in Applied Sciences and holds Masters in Computer Applications.

A Padma Bhushan, he is also the recipient of France’ highest civilian award Légion d’Honneur, in 2023. In 2025, he was conferred Honorary Knight of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire.

He has been awarded several honorary doctorates by leading Universities in India and internationally, including an honorary Doctor of Letters from Macquarie University, Australia, Doctor Honoris Causa by Nyenrode University, The Netherlands, and Doctor of Letter