Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

Voters in six states cast their ballots yesterday. The results reveal ongoing conflicts in both parties ahead of the November midterms. In Democratic primaries in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Connecticut, voters leaned toward younger, more progressive candidates who oppose President Trump's immigration policies. Minnesota Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan, a progressive candidate, won her U.S. Senate primary over a centrist opponent. In Wisconsin, democratic socialist candidate Rep. Francesca Hong was narrowly defeated by Milwaukee County Executive David Crowley for the gubernatorial nomination. Amid low approval ratings, Trump's endorsements had mixed outcomes in the Republican primaries. Trump-endorsed Sen. Darline Graham got enough support to advance to a runoff election for her late brother Lindsey Graham's Senate seat. But despite the president's support, MyPillow founder Mike Lindell lost his primary for governor of Minnesota. Here are four key takeaways from last night's elections.

MADISON, WISCONSIN - AUGUST 11: Residents vote in the state's primary election on August 11, 2026 in Madison, Wisconsin. The Wisconsin primary is being watched closely nationwide by both major political parties to see which direction voters are steering the parties before the November mid-term elections. Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption

President Trump has confirmed that he was secretly moved from Air Force One to a different aircraft while in Turkey last month due to a threat from Iran. Aboard the president's regular plane were White House staff, military personnel, Secret Service and journalists, essentially serving as unknowing decoys.

Iraq's new prime minister, Ali al-Zaidi, has promised Trump that he will disarm Iran-backed paramilitary groups, which are on the Iraqi government payroll but operate independently from the government. Since the start of the U.S. and Israel's war in Iran, these militias have intensified their attacks on U.S. diplomatic missions and military installations in Iraq.

You may be experiencing financial guilt if spending or not spending money makes you feel ashamed or regretful. This guilt can prevent you from improving your financial situation, or enjoying the money you already have. Financial planner Lauryn Williams breaks down three types of financial guilt and provides advice on how to address them. Life Kit has taken that guidance and shared it in an informative comic strip.

For additional guidance for spending and saving without guilt, listen to this episode of NPR's Life Kit. Subscribe to the Life Kit newsletter for expert advice on love, money, relationships and more.

Twenty million pilgrims gathered in the holy city of Karbala this year for the commemoration of Arbaeen, the story of Imam Hussein's killing 1,400 years ago. This year's attendees are drawing parallels to the killing of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and his family, by Israel and the United States. Many see the killing as an injustice against Shia Muslims. Iran says more than 3 million of its pilgrims attended Arbaeen ceremonies. Despite wars ranging across the Middle East, people expressed gratitude and grief during the pilgrimages. See photos from the festival.

Washington, D.C.'s Kennedy Center, as seen from the Washington Monument, on Aug. 10. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images hide caption