China on Wednesday sought to play down reports of a military standoff with India in the Arunachal Pradesh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with a foreign ministry spokesperson saying the “border situation is generally stable”.

The comments by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun came a day after the external affairs ministry said that the state of border affairs has ramifications for overall India-China ties, and that the two sides have agreed to use diplomatic and military mechanisms to “avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation” along the border.

The Indian side has officially offered no clarity on the current status of the standoff in Arunachal Pradesh sector, though people familiar with the situation said on condition of anonymity that problems first emerged in the remote Taksing area of Upper Subansiri district in early July and there had been several face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops.

Also Read | MEA hits back at Chinese criticism over naming of 27 Arunachal sites: ‘Indisputable reality’

“The China-India border situation is generally stable at the moment. China and India held the 36th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on China-India Border Affairs (WMCC) last week,” Guo told a media briefing without going into details.

Guo, who was responding to questions on videos on Indian social media claiming stepped-up Chinese military activity in Arunachal Pradesh, did not deny the reported standoff in the region.

The questions also referred to a recent military incident with India and increased Chinese military activity near Arunachal Pradesh.

Guo said India and China have “agreed to maintain communication via diplomatic and military channels and jointly uphold peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.

Also Read | 21 land areas, four passes, a lake: List of Arunachal locations India named to counter China

These remarks echoed comments by external affairs ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal at a media briefing in New Delhi on Tuesday.

India and China are currently engaged in rebuilding their relations, which plunged to a six-decade low in 2020 following a military face-off in Ladakh sector of the LAC and a violent clash at Galwan Valley in June that year that left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead.

Rezaul Hasan Laskar is Foreign Editor with the Hindustan Times, which he joined in 2015. He began as a journalist in his hometown of Shillong in northeast India and has worked in newspapers and wire services over the years. He moved to New Delhi in 1997 and initially focused on defence, national security, Jammu and Kashmir and the northeast, while also working of foreign policy and international relations. He has been part of the media delegation accompanying PMs on foreign visits and has reported from destinations ranging from Tibet to Ukraine. Between 2007 and 2013, he was the Press Trust of India correspondent in Pakistan, one of only two Indian journalists allowed to report from the country. He extensively covered Pakistan’s domestic politics and the life of the common people, as well as the fallout of the 2008 Mumbai attacks on India-Pakistan relations and the subsequent trial in Pakistan of the suspects involved in the attack. As part of his reportage in Pakistan, he travelled the breadth of the country, from the Swat Valley to Balochistan. Reza’s first gig in journalism was writing a weekly music column, and music – especially classic rock – remains a keen interest. He is also a movie buff and a keen photographer.Read More