Scott Bessent says treasury is launching ‘economic onslaught against Iran’s financial connections’ as Tehran vows to retaliate against cooperating countries

In his remarks, Bessent says that today, at Donald Trump’s direction, the United States Treasury “has begun Operation Economic Outcast”, which he described as an “unprecedented campaign” against Iran “and its enablers”.

“We are launching an economic onslaught against Iran’s financial connections around the globe,” he said. “Our objective is to sever every economic lifeline that sustains this tyrannical regime until Tehran stands alone.”

As we mentioned earlier, Donald Trump quickly got personal in response to criticism of his new tariffs on Canadian imports from the conservative premier of Ontario, Doug Ford, by comparing him unfavorably to his late brother, Rob Ford, a former rightwing mayor of Toronto.

Writing on social media, Trump called the Ontario leader a “less charismatic, intelligent, and overall unimpressive” version of his brother. What makes the US president’s enthusiastic praise for the late Rob Ford is that he was best known outside Canada for one thing: having been caught on video smoking crack while serving as mayor.

While the video was not made public until after Rob Ford’s death in 2016, he admitted in 2013 that he had smoked crack, “probably in one of my drunken stupors” in 2012.

The same year, the Ford brothers met Trump at the opening of a new Trump International Hotel and Tower in Toronto.

During Trump’s successful campaign for the Republican nomination for president in 2016, Doug Ford expressed delight that Trump had used one of his brother’s slogans.

“It’s a real tribute and a real honour,” Doug Ford told the Toronto Sun.

“Full disclosure, I like Trump,” he added. “He’s not part of the Washington establishment or the Washington elites ... I wouldn’t underestimate him.”

By last year, Doug Ford’s affection for Trump had waned so much that, as Ontario’s leader, he paid to have a television ad against Trump’s tariffs, featuring anti-tariff comments from Ronald Reagan, broadcast during the World Series, which infuriated Trump.

A new Reuters/Ipsos poll shows that public approval for the war with Iran has dropped to its lowest level since the conflict’s early days at the end of February. Now, only 31% of Americans surveyed support military action in Iran, which is down from 34% earlier this month.

Notably, fewer Americans who identify as Republican support the war, according to the poll. That number now sits at 69%, compared to 77% in March.

This comes at a time when Donald Trump’s own approval rating hovers at a new low of 33%, according to recent polling.

Scott Bessent announced today that the US has begun an “unprecedented” sanctions campaign against Iran “and its enablers”. A number of countries stand to face secondary sanctions, according to the treasury secretary. However, he did not say whether those, like China or Russia, would be impacted. He also did not set out a timeline for those countries to end doing business with Iran. “We know who they are, they know who they are, so when the hammer of US treasury actions falls upon them they will have no one to blame but themselves,” Bessent said, describing the new wave of sanctions as “economic asphyxiation” of the Iranian regime and “no one should test our resolve”.

Meanwhile, Donald Trump has threatened to increase tariffs on Canadian cars, trucks, auto parts and steel to 50% today, after trade negotiations between Washington and Ottowa broke down last week. On Truth Social, the US president blasted Canada and said the new duties will go into effect on 1 January 2027. “On Trade, and in other ways, also, they are among the worst Nations in the World to deal with. They feel entitled, and yet, WE DON’T NEED CANADA, THEY NEED US!” Trump wrote. This escalation comes after Canadian prime minister Mark Carney rejected the latest deal on Saturday, after Trump previously slapped a 50% tariff on $20bn worth of Canadian exports – ranging from hockey equipment to electronics.

In response, Mark Carney told reporters on Monday that Trump’s announcement was largely expected. “It’s not a surprise for us that the US would take some form of reprisal to our response to their unjustified tariff, which was on top of other unjustified tariffs,” he said from Quebec. “But what message does that send to the workers in Michigan, in Ohio, in Kentucky, in Alabama, who rely on Canadian demand?” he continued. “We’re their largest customer for automobiles, more than the European Union, Japan, Korea, many others combined, and the United Kingdom.”

Trump, however, continued a war of words with Ontario premier Doug Ford, who he said was displaying “a lot of bluster”. Trump called Ford the “less charismatic, intelligent, and overall unimpressive” version of his brother Rob Ford, the former mayor of Toronto. Earlier, the Ontario premier said that Canada must “throw everything and the kitchen sink” at 