US President Donald Trump on Monday accused Canada of "ripping off" Washington for years, claiming that its ridiculously high tariffs on farm products made life impossible for US citizens.In a post on Truth Social, Trump said that Canada is the worst nation in the world to deal with and claimed that the US will no longer treat Canada like a state from January 1, 2027."Canada has been ripping off the United States of America for years. Their ridiculously high tariffs on our farmers and farm products have made life impossible for these great American Patriots, and have long created a 60 Billion Dollar Deficit between our two Countries," Trump said."Not sustainable, and NOT ANYMORE! On January First, 2027, Tariffs on all Cars, Trucks, both large and small, Automotive Parts, and Steel, will be increased to 50%. Build in the US and there are ZERO TARIFFS. Canada will be treated like a State no longer! On Trade, and in other ways, also, they are among the worst Nations in the World to deal with. They feel entitled, and yet, WE DON’T NEED CANADA, THEY NEED US! They do 95% of their business with the US, with us, the exact opposite!" he added.This comes after Ottawa suspended all trade negotiations with Washington and ordered its trade negotiation team to return from the US.Canada Prime Minister Mark Carney said the decision followed recent progress in talks but added that it had not been enough to meet Canada’s objectives of securing tariff-free access for most Canadian businesses, reducing US tariffs on key industries and protecting small and medium-sized businesses.“Over the past 18 months, Canada’s new government has focused on building our strength at home, diversifying our partnerships abroad, and striking a fair deal with the United States," Carney said in a statement.Further announcing the decision to suspend the negotiations, he added, "In recent weeks, we made important progress toward improving Canada’s position as having the best deal in the world with the US. However, that progress has not been enough to meet our objectives for Canadians."As a result, this evening, I have decided to suspend trade negotiations with the US and have directed Canada’s negotiators to return to Ottawa. They have worked hard, in good faith, to defend the interests of Canadians throughout these negotiations up until the very last minute. However, last-minute changes in the US proposed terms were unfair, uneconomic, and called into question the reliability of any deal."Get the latest Business News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.