President repeats frequent ‘fake news’ attacks as four other networks that make up White House TV pool decided they would cease coverage in solidarity with banned CNN

Donald Trump is bracing for a loss in the lawsuit brought by three media organizations, as he considers that the judge presiding over the case – his own appointee – previously ordered the White House to restore credentials for journalist Jim Acosta.

“They have drawn a great Judge, for them, a man who ruled in favor of Jim Acosta, who now seems to have disappeared from the Planet,” Trump wrote on Truth Social, referring to a lawsuit filed by CNN in 2018. “The Judge’s name is Tim Kelly, and he was, sadly, appointed by ‘TRUMP.’ In other words, almost without question and, as usual, we’ll go for appeal because Fake News people and publications that only write negatively, and who violate our National Security by writing false and defamatory stories with unknown ‘sources,’ shouldn’t be allowed access to the most important Office anywhere in the World.”

In his remarks today, New York City mayor Zohran Mamdani said he shared “very strong opinions” on “how we can keep immigrant New Yorkers safe” during his meeting with Donald Trump, especially regarding temporary protected status (TPS) for immigrants in the United States.

Mamdani said he told the US president “how important immigrant New Yorkers, especially Haitian New Yorkers, are not only to the fabric of our city, but also to our city’s economy, to so many of the industries that build our city, and the stability that is in the president’s hands”.

In June, the US supreme court ruled in favor of the Trump administration’s effort to strip TPS from hundreds of thousands of Haitians and Syrians.

Zohran Mamdani was asked whether he challenged Donald Trump on the banning of CNN, MS Now, and Politico from White House grounds.

“I told the president that we’re going to have all of the members of the press here on the lawn, and that is something that I believe in,” Mamdani said at Gracie Mansion in New York City.

“It’s interesting because they said they were going to boycott me, but they never boycott me, so I wasn’t very worried about that,” Trump said.

In response to a question about whether the ban was put in place as a distraction from the war in Iran and high gas prices, Trump said: “I’m not.”

“I’m only doing it because I think the press also has an obligation,” Trump said. “I think that these outlets have an obligation to be fair. And if they’re fake news, I really think I have an obligation not to allow them into another very special house. This is a special house, Gracie Mansion. Well, the White House is the most special of all houses.”

New York City mayor Zohran Mamdani and President Donald Trump spoke ahead of the UN General Assembly this week following a closed-door meeting at Gracie Mansion on Monday.

“One of the focuses of the conversation the president and I have been having is about the possibility of building more housing here in New York City,” Mamdani said.

“We’ve spoken about Sunnyside Yard,” he added, referring to the 180-acre railyard in Queens, “and it’s a real pleasure that just today we’ve agreed to set up a new level of that conversation between our housing and operations team at City Hall and the White House team.”

“I can tell you that Sunnyside’s a big job,” Trump said. “I’ve been watching that for 35 years. Everybody’s wanted to do something with Sunnyside Yards.”

“You’re going to need a lot of federal approvals and probably some federal money to do it. But it’s always been a great location,” Trump added.

The New York Times said it would hold off on publishing or distributing still photographs taken as part of the White House pool coverage on Monday until midnight, joining a collective effort with photographers in other newsrooms in support of the media organizations that were banned from the White House.

“The New York Times will not publish or distribute any images taken as part of the White House still photography pool today, in conjunction with the other members of that pool and in a show of support for the news organizations being unfairly targeted by the president’s barring of journalists from the White House,” said Charlie Stadtlander, a spokesperson for the news outlet, in a statement.

“We remain committed to covering the president’s travel to New York City today,” Stadtlander added. “Americans deserve a free and independent media covering their government without intimidation, as well as comprehensive coverage of newsworthy events.”

Wilber Rafael Garcés Pérez, the Venezuelan man who was shot by an ICE officer in Austin, spoke over the phone at a news conference, offering further details on his condition.

The 28-year-old was taken to a hospital in Austin, Texas, in serious but stable condition before being taken into custody.

The Associated Press reports that, speaking by phone during a news conference, Garcés Pérez said doctors didn’t remove the bullet b