Nearly 130 global leaders are attending the high-level meeting at the United Nations in person this week to deliver their message to the world.

The leaders, including India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, will speak at the General Debate of the 81st session of United Nations General Assembly through the week beginning today. The theme this year is "Restoring trust, managing transformation: a United Nations that delivers for all".

The general debate is the annual meeting of global leaders at the beginning of the General Assembly session. It is usually the first debate of the session and - with the exception of the high-level meetings - the only one in which Heads of State and Government regularly participate, the UNGA website says.

The UN General Assembly in 2026 will focus on major wars, the impact of artificial intelligence, climate crises, economic inequalities, and UN reform aimed at making the organization more effective.

This theme emphasizes the need for international cooperation and rebuilding confidence among nations amidst global challenges such as conflict, technological disruption, and climate change.

Current global unrest, characterized by conflicts in regions like Iran and Ukraine, escalates the urgency for discussions on peace, security, and humanitarian responses during the UN General Assembly.

Yes, advocating for UN reform is crucial to ensure that the organization better reflects current global power dynamics and can effectively address contemporary issues faced by member states.

Artificial intelligence is a key topic, as world leaders express concerns about its rapid advancement and potential risks, prompting discussions on the need for governance and ethical considerations in AI development.

The general debate takes place in the General Assembly Hall at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, US.

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is leading the Indian delegation at the debate. Jaishankar is scheduled to address the High Level Session on 26 September.

The UNGA meeting of world leaders is taking plae under a global cloud of wars and bitter divisions amid new fears that runaway artificial intelligence could threaten humanity even as climate shocks and escalating prices are already making life much tougher for hundreds of millions of people, news agency AP said.

The week-long annual gathering is expeceted to be consumed with major wars in Iran, Gaza, Ukraine,Sudan, Congo and Myanmar and a persisting question.

Other issues to feature include the rise of global warming threatening the future of the planet, the growing inequalities within and among nations, and shocks to the global economy as blocked shipping routes and supply chains increase the cost of living and slow growth, the news agency said.

The future of the United Nations will also definitely be on the agenda.

At 81, its powers are still the victorious nations from World War II, not the 21st century’s major global players. The UN’s 193 member nations have agreed to a wide-ranging reform package that includes updating key institutions such as the powerful UN Security Council, where the US, Russia, China, Britain and France hold inordinate sway because of their veto power. Reform, however, is easier said than implemented.

There will be speculation about who will lead the United Nations next. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ second five-year term ends December 31 and no clear successor has emerged, AP said.

US President Donald Trump and French President Emanuel Macron are scheduled to speak on Tuesday, 22 September, after Guterres’ opening “state of the world” address. Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky and Iran’s President Masoud Pezeshkian speak Wednesday.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whom New York Mayor Zoran Mamdani wanted arrested for his treatment of Palestinians in Gaza until he learned he has no such authority, will address the assembly on 24 September .

For a second year, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas won’t be coming to the UN because the US has refused to give him a visa. He will nonetheless address the assembly by video the same day.

On the UNGA sidelines, China’s President Xi Jinping is meeting Trump in Washington on Wednesday. Some diplomats quoted by AP suggested that President Trump is skipping the UN gathering and sending a vice president JD Vance instead. Russian President Vladimir Putin isn’t coming either, and India is being represented by EAM Jaishankar.

France's UN ambassador, Jerome Bonnafont, said it is “extremely critical” for world leaders this week to support the UN as the place where the world’s nations meet — especially at a time of such polarization.

“We believe in multilateralism," he said, "and we believe that the high-level week is the occasion for countries in the world to reaffirm that they prefer cooperation and dialogue to confrontation.”

Days before the UNGA gathering, leaders of three major AI companies warned about the technology ge