Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar during the 'Partners for Multilateralism, International Law, Peace & Prosperity' (P4M) Summit in New York. Photo credit: @DrSJaishankar/X via PTI

External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has called for stronger multilateral cooperation and reforms in global institutions, warning that the international order is facing growing pressure from intense competition, geopolitical tensions and ongoing conflicts.

Speaking at the Partners for Multilateralism, International Law, Peace & Prosperity (P4M) Summit in New York, on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Jaishankar said multilateralism must be reinforced to uphold international cooperation and address emerging global challenges. The summit was co-chaired by Mr. Jaishankar and European Council President António Costa.

“The 4F crisis of Fuel, Food, Fertiliser and Finance cannot be left to itself,” Mr. Jaishankar noted. “Where there is a threat of chokepoint dominance and disruption, de-risking and diversifying must be encouraged. And where there is a compelling cause or a powerful case, the like-minded must have the confidence to come together,” he added. He also said that multilateralism will be best served when international law, rules and norms are scrupulously observed.

EAM Jaishankar reiterated that more participative deliberations and transparent decision-making are overdue.

The P4M initiative, founded by leaders of the European Union, Brazil, Kenya and Canada, is expected to make a pitch for the grouping at the UN General Assembly’s “high-level debate” session this week. In a joint editorial also said that the ‘Partners for Multilateralism ’ would not create another exclusive bloc or international bureaucracy.

“Its purpose is the opposite: to create a flexible, open framework for countries from different regions and political traditions that are willing to work across divides, to build coalitions for reform and to translate shared principles into practical action,” the co-authors wrote, pointing out that 2025 saw the highest recorded number of state-based armed conflicts since 1946, in 35 countries, and the highest recorded military spending of nearly $3 trillion.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.