Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

EAM S. Jaishankar meets with the Visegrád Group on the sidelines of the 81st session of the UN General Assembly. Photo credit: @DrSJaishankar/X

India and the four-member Visegrad group of Central European countries on Monday (September 21, 2026) agreed to step up political, economic and defence cooperation at their first Foreign Ministers' meeting, which External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar described as a “new historic occasion”.

The Visegrad Group (V4) is a cultural and political alliance of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia that aims to advance cooperation in military, economic, cultural, and energy affairs.

The first meeting between the Foreign Ministers of the Visegrad Group and India was held on Monday (September 21, 2026), on the sidelines of the 81st session of the UN General Assembly.

Mr Jaishankar met with Poland's Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Radek Sikorski; Hungary's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Anita Orban; Slovakia's Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Juraj Blanar; and the Czech Minister of Foreign Affairs, Petr Macinka.

"It was, in a sense, a new historic occasion,” Mr. Jaishankar said in remarks after the meeting.

"It was a very, very productive meeting. What we agreed was that since India's relationship with the European Union itself is deepening, with the V4 we would take some special initiatives to create an annual business forum,” he said, adding that there was “consensus" that the Foreign Ministers of the five nations in the group would meet annually.

“We would also explore technology and innovation whether we could be doing more. We have a very strong history with all the V4 countries in defence. We want to refresh and take forward that record and that cooperation,” Mr. Jaishankar said.

The group also discussed issues including space, connectivity, and people-to-people mobility.

Mr. Jaishankar said the meeting was “very worthwhile” and “very productive”, with discussions focusing on cooperation as well as major global crises, including the Ukraine conflict and developments in the Gulf.

“It was really a very, very worthwhile, very productive meeting. I'm very pleased about it,” he said in remarks to reporters after the meeting.

In a post on X, Mr. Jaishankar said the first meeting in the V4+India format agreed to closer political cooperation, including annual meetings of foreign ministers, and deeper economic cooperation, including the Annual Business Forum.

Delighted to join the Visegrád Group DPM & FM @radeksikorski#Poland DPM & FM @_OrbanAnita#Hungary FM Juraj Blanár #Slovakia and FM @petr_macinka#Czechia on the sidelines of #UNGA81. Our first meeting in the V4+India format agreed to:✅ Closer political cooperation including… pic.twitter.com/mBqMTkC6QN

The countries also agreed to strengthen technology, innovation, research and education partnerships; reinvigorate defence cooperation; further develop cultural cooperation and people-to-people relations and work together to support multilateralism, he said.

Mr. Jaishankar also said that India has “very good” relations with the V4 countries.

"These are countries with a very strong, very distinctive capability. These are industrial economies, economies with great innovation and technology talent, and I think how the V4 come together is for them to decide. But we certainly welcome the opportunity to work with the V4 together,” he told reporters.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.