Poland, Hungry, Slovakia and Czech Republic on Monday backed India's bid for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, with Slovakia foreign minister Juraj Blanár saying India, as a leading country of the Global South and an emerging power in the Indo-Pacific, should have a place at the UN's top decision-making body.The remarks came after external affairs minister S Jaishankar participated in the first high-level Visegrád Group (V4) plus India meeting on the sidelines of the 81st UN General Assembly in New York."We all agree, as V4 countries, that India, as part of the Global South, an upcoming superpower in the Indo-Pacific region, must be at the table as a permanent member of the UN Security Council," Blanár said.The V4 comprises Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Czechia. The four countries held their first ministerial-level meeting with India in the new V4+India format during the UNGA high-level week.Jaishankar described the meeting as a "new historic occasion" and said the discussions covered political, economic, defence, technology, space, connectivity and people-to-people ties."We had our first Visegrad Four and India meeting. It was, in a sense, a new historic occasion, and I would like to thank Minister Juraj (Foreign Minister of Slovakia) for convening us today. It was a very, very productive meeting. What we agreed was that since India's relationship with the European Union itself is deepening, with the V4, we would take some special initiatives to create an annual business forum. As foreign ministers, we would meet annually. That was the consensus. We would also explore in technology and innovation whether we could be doing more. We have a very strong history with all the V4 countries in defense. We want to refresh and take forward that record and that cooperation. We discussed space issues, connectivity, and people-to-people mobility. We have students in each of the V4 countries. Overall, in terms of our cooperation, as well as a very good and useful exchange on the big global crisis, the Ukraine conflict, and what's happening in the Gulf. I think it was a very worthwhile and productive meeting. I'm very pleased about it."Jaishankar on V4's role in global affairsAsked about the political importance of the V4 for India on the global stage, Jaishankar said New Delhi viewed the four countries as partners with strong industrial, technological and innovation capabilities."We have very good relations with the V4 countries, and we know that these are countries with a very strong, very distinctive capability. They are industrial economies, economies with great innovation and technology talent. And I think how the V4 come together is for them to decide. But we certainly welcome the opportunity to work."India has been seeking reform of the UN Security Council and a permanent seat on the body. The Council currently has five permanent members, China, France, Russia, the UK and the US, alongside 10 non-permanent members elected for two-year terms.Jaishankar had formally launched India's campaign for a non-permanent UNSC term for 2028-29 in July, while New Delhi has continued to press for broader reform of the Council and permanent membership for India.India, V4 agree on closer cooperationJaishankar said the meeting also resulted in an agreement to strengthen cooperation through annual foreign ministerial meetings and an annual business forum.In a post on X, Jaishankar said: "Our first meeting in the V4+India format agreed to: Closer political cooperation including annual meetings of Foreign Ministers. Deeper economic cooperation, including the Annual Business Forum. Reinvigorating our defence cooperation. Further development of our cultural cooperation and people-to-people relations."The meeting included Poland's deputy prime minister and foreign minister Radosław Sikorski, Hungary's deputy prime minister and foreign minister Dr Anita Orbán, Slovakia's foreign minister Juraj Blanár and Czechia's foreign minister Petr Macinka.Jaishankar is leading the Indian delegation at the 81st UN General Assembly high-level week in New York and is scheduled to address the General Debate on September 26.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.