CDU suffered heavy losses in two regional elections, including in home state of former leader Angela Merkel, where it polled just 4.9%

German chancellor ⁠Friedrich Merz has said that he ⁠is grateful ⁠the ​centre-left Social Democrats wanted to remain ⁠in a coalition with his conservatives after a ⁠dramatic setback for ​his ‌CDU party ‌in state elections.

“I am ‌grateful that we have heard from the Social Democrats this morning that they intend ‌to remain part of the coalition in Berlin,” ​Merz said at a press conference.

“That applies to us ⁠too, and it applies ​to ​me as well. Together, ​we are determined ​to ‌rise ​to ​the historic challenges facing our country,” he said.

“We are determined to live up to the historic responsibilities our country is facing,” he added, referring to the coalition between his centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD.

“It is about nothing less, and nothing more, than the democratic future of our country.”

I’ll draw the blog to a close for today. In Germany, Chancellor Friedrich Merz says his party’s losses to the far-right in two state elections this month mark a “profound turning point” for his conservative party and the political centre.

For the first time in eight decades, the CDU was booted from state parliament, failing to gain the 5% voter base needed to enter.

AfD’s triumphant co-leader Alice Wiedel said the results showed the anti-immigration, pro-Kremlin party had become the “people’s party” – while another party boss suggested Merz would be out of the party leader position by the end of the year

Merz dismissed calls for him to go 16 months into term, digging in instead on his pledge to deliver reforms on tax, welfare and pensions.

The EU and allies roundly condemned the “sham” parliamentary election held in Russia over the weekend, including in many occupied parts of Ukraine, refusing to recognise the results

In the first elections held since Putin launched the full-scale invasion in 2022, his United Russia party won a supermajority of 355 of the 450 seats in the Duma.

The results were a sham said Western democracies, given political parties critical of Putin were banned from the vote and there were no legitimate opposition candidates on the ballot paper.

“The veneer of democracy is all that remains in Russia,” said European Commission VP Kaja Kallas.

Many world leaders will be in New York tomorrow for the UN General Assembly talks, where talks with US President Trump loom on issues like NATO spending, Ukraine and Iran wars and even the Greenland deal hashed out.

Donald Trump and Volodymyr Zelenskyy will meet tomorrow on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York, AFP news agency is reporting.

US efforts to broker a ceasefire deal have stalled this year as the White House has focused on Iran. Meanwhile both sides have just increased the intensity of their long-range attacks on each other.

Ukraine on the weekend launched a massive drone attack campaign, striking a number of Russian oil refineries.

Trump on Monday called the war “ridiculous” and said Russia had “unfortunately lost control” of its oil production.

“A large number of their Diesel refineries have been blown up and are, at least temporarily, out of commission,” Trump said on social media.

In a call with Zelenskyy on Sunday, Trump had reportedly also made a request for Kyiv to stop strikes on refineries, AFP reported citing an unnamed source. Trump has made the request before, arguing such strikes are causing spikes in oil prices, already at over $100/barrel highs due to the Iran war. Ukraine’s leader said on X on Monday that Russia needed to stop targeting Ukraine’s energy sites, infrastructure and food exports and that would lead to “matching de-escalation steps on our part.”

A joint statement just out from these allied Western democracies condemning the Duma parliamentary vote taking place in occupied Ukrainian territories.

Elections were held in ocupied Crimea and Donetsk, as well as in the Ukrainian cities of Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia.

The countries brand the move “part of a wider system of occupation”. France earlier also issued a statement blasting the fake election, listing factors including:

Heightened ​repression against civil society and ‌the ⁠opposition

This had “undermined the Russian ​people’s ⁠ability to freely form and express their ⁠choice,” France’s foreign ministry said.

Merz said the election losses marked a “profound turning point” for the mainstream conservative party.

It’s the first time the CDU has crashed out of a local parliament since the end of WW2 – a “uniquely dramatic result… that will have repercussions for us for a long time to come”, said Merz. September’s three elections losses are a wake-up call to a CDU who haemorrhaged their support base to the far-right AfD in Meckenburg-Western Pomerania and Saxony-Anhalt two weeks earlier.

AfD now nationally have the biggest share of support of voters, with their vote greatest in the forme