Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

One of the men who was seen harassing the boy and the girl. Photo: Instagram/@rahulgandhi.

The National Commission for Women on Monday (September 21, 2026) took suo motu cognisance of the alleged assault and harassment of a teenage girl and her male companion in Jamui in Bihar and directed the Director General of Police to immediately file an FIR in the matter.

“The National Commission for Women has taken suo motu cognisance of an incident in Jamui district of Bihar involving alleged public molestation, assault, forcible stopping and harassment of a teenage girl and her male companion,” the NCW said in a post on X.

The NCW directives follow the surfacing of the viral footage of two minor Class 10 students being harassed by a group of men while returning from coaching classes on September 19, 2026.

The commission said: “Any compromise on the dignity, safety, and privacy of women is unacceptable at any level,” and added that NCW Chairperson Vijaya Rahatkar has written to the Bihar Director General of Police (DGP), directing him to immediately register an FIR.

Seeking a detailed Action Taken Report in the matter, the commission has directed that security, legal assistance and psychological counselling be provided to the victims.

All necessary legal action should also be taken to stop further sharing of the objectionable video being circulated on social media, the NCW directed.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.