Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

Turtles nested in record numbers at Great Nicobar project site: RTI reply confirms Scroll report

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Rush Hour: IIT-Bombay removes professor as dean, forgery case against Sonia Gandhi revived and more

Bihar: Three arrested after videos show minor girl, boy being harassed and assaulted in Jamui

Assam CM lays foundation for Adani power project on land cleared by evicting 1,400 Muslim families

The Bihar Police on Monday said that three persons have been arrested for allegedly harassing and assaulting a minor girl and her male friend in Jamui district.

The police claimed that the three persons were identified from videos that are being widely shared online. The videos shows the boy riding a two-wheeler while the girl was seated behind him.

A group of men could be seen surrounding them on a dimly lit road and asking them whether they were classmates and if their families were aware of their relationship. The boy said that they were classmates, while the girl pleaded with the group to let the two go.

One of the men slapped the boy and asked them to call their families. “If they know, then call them,” the man could be heard saying.

In other videos, several men are seen chasing the two minors. One of them could be seen grabbing and lifting the girl, while the boy tried to pull her away. The boy was then seen being pulled by his collar by another man.

Jamui Superintendent of Police Bishwajeet Dayal told reporters that the incident took place on September 19, reported PTI.

“Although the incident is two days old, no complaint was made before us by the boy or the girl till Sunday,” Dayal was quoted as saying by the news agency. “Today, when the video went viral, we traced the victims with the help of the registration number of a vehicle visible in the clip.”

In a press conference on Monday, Dayal said that the arrested persons were minors while the other suspects were being identified through the videos, ANI reported.

He added that they have been booked under provisions of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita relating to assaulting a woman with intent to outrage her modesty and using criminal force with intent to disrobe her, as well as under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

A Special Investigation Team has been formed to probe the case, said the police.

Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the video was “deeply disturbing” and asked why the suspects were “not behind bars yet” when the incident had taken place on Saturday.

“Two class 10 students were stopped on a road,” he wrote in a social media post. “Harassed. Humiliated. Molested. A young girl, hands folded, begged to be let go while goons groped her and dragged her away.”

Gandhi demanded that the Bihar government answer “why a girl is not safe on a public road at 7 pm”.

The National Democratic Alliance, comprising the Bharatiya Janata Party and Janata Dal (United), is in power in Bihar.

Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav said that “gunda raj”, or a state of lawlessness, had completely taken hold of Bihar, ANI reported.

“What can you expect when BJP’s Samrat Chaudhary is the chief minister of Bihar, who also has murder cases against him,” Yadav said.

He alleged that the government had “lost all sense of shame or decency” and was focused on “hushing up” cases instead of ensuring justice for victims.

Meanwhile, JD(U)’s Umesh Kushwaha described the case as an “isolated incident”, ANI reported.

“I want to ask what was the condition of Bihar before 2005?” the news agency quoted him as saying. “Today, no criminal is spared by the police and administration.”