Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

Turtles nested in record numbers at Great Nicobar project site: RTI reply confirms Scroll report

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Rush Hour: IIT-Bombay removes professor as dean, forgery case against Sonia Gandhi revived and more

Bihar: Three arrested after videos show minor girl, boy being harassed and assaulted in Jamui

Assam CM lays foundation for Adani power project on land cleared by evicting 1,400 Muslim families

A Delhi court on Monday set aside a magisterial court order that had dismissed a petition seeking a first information report against Congress leader Sonia Gandhi for allegedly using forged documents to get her name included in the voter rolls of 1980, three years before she obtained Indian citizenship, Live Law reported.

The magistrate’s order, dated September 11, 2025, did not provide a reason for why the complaint was dismissed entirely, said Special Judge Vishal Gogne of Dwarka courts.

He directed the magistrate to hear the petition afresh and pass a “reasoned order”.

The petition was filed by Rouse Avenue Court Bar Association Vice President Vikas Tripathi.

Tripathi alleged that Gandhi’s name was added as a voter of the New Delhi constituency in January 1980, when she was not an Indian citizen. The name was deleted from the electoral rolls in 1982 after the Election Commission found irregularities.

Her name was re-entered in 1983, the year she obtained citizenship, Tripathi said in his complaint.

On Monday, the sessions court said that the trial court had violated provisions of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita by not seeking a status report from the police, reported Bar and Bench.

It said that the magistrate further did not discuss the significance of the sequence in which Gandhi’s name was included, deleted and again included in the electoral rolls in 1980, 1982 and 1983.

The matter will be listed before the additional chief judicial magistrate on September 29.

Tripathi had filed a revision petition before the sessions court challenging the magistrate’s order, following which the court had issued a notice to Gandhi on December 9.

On February 6, Gandhi told the court that the complaint was “wholly misconceived, frivolous, politically motivated, and an abuse of the process of law”.

She argued that the complaint was based on speculative assumptions, media reports and “imaginary applications”, without any foundational documents being produced.