Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

Journalist Ravi Nair to remain in jail as Gujarat HC gives Adani more time to respond to his plea

‘Srishti’s crime is empathy’: Who is the young artist jailed for supporting Noida workers’ protest?

Assam CM lays foundation for Adani power project on land cleared by evicting 1,400 Muslim families

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

Turtles nested in record numbers at Great Nicobar project site: RTI reply confirms Scroll report

‘I learn not to carry the hurt / like a loaded gun’: These poems are diverse manifestations of home

The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay on Monday suspended a professor from his position as dean after he was accused of subjecting a student who died by suicide to caste-based discrimination, The Indian Express reported.

The professor, Suryanarayan Doolla, has been accused by the family of 20-year-old Sahil Wakode of subjecting him to caste-based discrimination for three months, allegedly on the instructions of IIT-Bombay Director Shireesh B Kedare. Wakode died by suicide on Friday.

Doolla will continue as a member of the teaching faculty and has only been removed from his administrative position.

Kedare communicated the decision to students in an email, The Indian Express reported.

On Saturday, the Mumbai Police filed a case against Doolla and unidentified persons on charges of abetment to suicide and under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocities Act. The crime branch will investigate the case.

The suspension came amid protests at the institute following Wakode’s death.

On Sunday, Kedare accepted a charter of more than 18 demands submitted by the protesting students and assured them that the institute would look into them, the Hindustan Times reported. One of the demands was Doolla’s suspension as a professor. The students had also demanded Kedare’s resignation.

On Monday, IIT-Bombay denied reports that Kedare had resigned after accepting the students’ demands.

The institute also apologised for statements in an “earlier communication concerning the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate demise of Sahil”.

On Saturday, IIT-Bombay claimed that during an examination a day earlier, Wakode was found using a mobile phone and uploading the question paper on artificial intelligence chatbot ChatGPT to seek answers. Doolla was reportedly the invigilator at the time.

The institute had claimed that no disciplinary action was taken against Wakode. “The matter was also discussed with the student by the instructor, the faculty advisor and the head of the department, who counselled him and assured him that the incident would not adversely affect his academic career,” it had said on Saturday.

However, Wakode’s parents alleged that their son had been threatened with suspension.

We apologise for the statements contained in our earlier communication concerning the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate demise of Sahil.The details and circumstances leading up to the incident remain subject to investigation by the appropriate authorities. In view of…

In a statement on Monday, the institute said: “The details and circumstances leading up to the incident remain subject to investigation by the appropriate authorities.”

“In view of the ongoing investigation, it was inappropriate to have set out or characterised details relating to the events preceding his demise before they had been duly established through the appropriate investigative process,” it added.