Miriam Levin-Gold likes Prime Minister Mark Carney's idea of Canadians being able to live and work in the European Union under proposed closer ties with the trade bloc.

"I think that's great for young people to explore different parts of the world and work in different places and have different experiences," the commuter told the BBC in Toronto.

Canadians woke up to news of Carney's speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg on Thursday morning, welcoming the EU's ambition for Canada to become its first "associate member" as he urged closer co-operation on defence and energy.

"We should deepen our people-to-people ties, allowing our youth to live, work and study where they want on either side of the Atlantic," the PM said.

Carney told MEPs that Canada and Europe were "stronger together" in the face of "geopolitical rupture".

But before Canadians start packing their bags - "associate member" status does not currently exist within the EU and could take years to implement, given that all 27 EU member states would have to approve such an arrangement.

Nevertheless, people the BBC spoke to were excited about the potential prospect of working and studying in the EU as news of Carney's speech spread.

Alex Nash, from Montreal, said closer ties would clear away the obstacles of work visas and permits.

"It would certainly be really nice for that to be easier, more convenient and to be able to visit more easily," she said.

One person on a Facebook group, A Canadian Outlook, said they would love the opportunity for their grandchildren to study at European universities for better rates. Another woman said it would make it much easier for the home she already owns in France.

"Snow birds are going to love it," another person said, referring to Canadians who head to warmer locations for winter.

The sentiments hint at dissatisfaction in Canada over bilateral tensions with the US.

Growing up in Canada, David Jardine thought of the US as not just a neighbour, but an epicentre of culture and cool.

"I remember wanting to go and visit New York all the time," he told the BBC after finishing his overnight shift, not far from one of Toronto's most iconic buildings, the CN tower.

But he's become a lot more sceptical in the light of US President Donald Trump's trade war with Canada and rhetoric about annexation.

"I would say I think not only does it make more sense to associate closely with Europe, it's a place that I would rather be associating with given the way things are these days," he said.

Maggie Stainton, who manages local pub C'est What in Toronto's St Lawrence Market district, became emotional when she spoke about Canada's frayed ties with the US.

"It's too volatile with the United States," she said. "I feel that there's some stability in Europe."

For decades, America has been a cultural centre of gravity that is difficult to avoid, with many Canadian actors working in Hollywood and Canadian radio stations playing US music.

"I think we're forced to feel more American simply by the influences that we have," Stainton added.

"However, I think deep down, I definitely I lean towards feeling more European in my ideas and ideals."

These views were echoed by many other people the BBC spoke to in the centre of Canada's biggest city.

Carney, who used to lead Canada and Britain's central banks, was elected on a promise that he would not only take a tough stance against Trump, but broaden Canada's economic horizons.

Up to 72% of Canadian exports are to the US, and the ongoing trade tensions have spurred Ottawa to seek closer ties with other nations.

The EU, in many ways, would seem a natural fit. Over half of Canada's population reported having European origins, according to the last census, which was taken in 2021.

A recent Abacus Data survey conducted before Carney's speech found that 80% of Canadians say the country should deepen strategic cooperation with the EU, and over half feel closer to Europe than America.

However, details of Carney's proposed plans for greater ties with the EU are scarce.

A pair of opposition Conservative MPs have called on him to elaborate on what he and the bloc plan to work towards.

"It could be a concrete, meaningful proposal. Or it could be just words and vibes," said Adam Chambers, MP for Simcoe North in Ontario, during an interview with the BBC on the eve of Carney's speech on Thursday.

Chambers alluded to the existing Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (Ceta) between the EU and Canada, highlighting that it still awaits ratification by multiple EU nations.

And while deepening ties with Europe would be welcomed by many Canadians, there is still a sense that the country's relationship with the US - however strained - must not crumble.

"I grew up here. I've been here 40 years in Canada, in Ontario, and America's always been the neighbour," says Ahmed Khalil.

Building bridges with Europe makes sense, he said: "I think it brings in more money for Canada and more 