India’s Ambassador to the United States Vinay Mohan Kwatra has defended New Delhi’s energy sourcing policy after the US House of Representatives passed legislation that gives US president Donald Trump the authority to impose tariffs of up to 100 per cent on countries continuing to buy Russian oil and gas, including India and China. The bill was approved 262-159 after clearing the Senate last month and now goes to Trump for signature.In an X thread titled “People First: What Drives India’s Energy Imperative”, Kwatra said India’s energy choices were driven by development and energy security.“Energy is a vital strategic necessity for 1.4 billion Indians and a foundation of our development….India is the world’s fastest-growing major economy and its third-largest energy consumer. Yet the average Indian consumes less than one-third of the global average and one-tenth of average American. Our energy needs will, and must, grow,” he said.Kwatra said reliable and affordable energy was essential for homes, farms, hospitals, schools, factories and transport.“India imports over 85% of its crude oil and around half its natural gas. Our sourcing reflects a fundamental national responsibility: looking outside our borders to secure adequate, affordable and uninterrupted energy for our people,” he said.He added that India sources energy from partners across the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eurasia and the US, with decisions guided by “availability, affordability, market conditions and commercial viability”.“When recent conflicts squeezed global supplies, India acted decisively to protect its people from price shocks. That also helped steady global energy markets and prevent a deeper crisis. The energy security of India’s people comes first!” Kwatra said.The Ministry of External Affairs said India had noted the passage of the legislation and was monitoring further developments. It reiterated that New Delhi remained committed to energy security through diversified sourcing and evolving market conditions.The MEA said, “The Indian side has also made clear its determination to take all necessary measures to protect its trade and economic interests,” adding that the government would work with Indian trade and industry bodies to address the implications.The legislation comes amid wider trade tensions between India and the US. Further bilateral trade discussions are expected on the sidelines of the G20 Trade Ministers’ meeting in Wisconsin later this month, as negotiations on a broader trade agreement continue.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.