The US House of Representatives passed a sanctions bill on Wednesday that clears the way for tariffs of up to 100% on the five biggest purchasers of Russian oil and gas, including India. Over the last one and a half years, India-US ties have faced pressure amid tariff negotiations, with the Trump administration taking a tough stance on tariffs on Indian imports. Since February 2025, there have been several twists and turns in the tariff story.

Also Read | Russia sanctions bill threatening 100% tariffs on India, China clears US House, awaits Trump’s approval

It all started in February 2025, when US President Donald Trump announced a new tariff system under which the US would charge tariff rates equivalent to those imposed by India.

The two countries also agreed to work towards a limited trade deal and set a target of doubling bilateral trade to $500 billion by 2030.

Two months later, the US decided to impose a 26% tariff on several Indian imports. However, Trump later paused the implementation for 90 days, during which a 10% duty was imposed on all imports from India.

Also Read | US Congress clears Russia sanctions bill, hands Trump new tariff powers: What it means for India

Two months later, the situation changed again as Trump decided to impose a 25% tariff on all Indian products imported into the US. He did not stop there. A month later, the tariff was increased to 50%.

India reacted strongly to what it called an “unfair” tariff, saying it had every right to defend its national interests. The Trump administration was unhappy with India’s continued purchase of Russian oil, even though New Delhi maintained that it remained firmly committed to ensuring the energy security of its 1.4 billion people.

This period saw India-US relations ease somewhat, as the US decided to lower the tariff on Indian imports to 18% in exchange for India halting Russian oil purchases and reducing trade barriers. The two countries also released a framework for a trade deal.

Later, the US Supreme Court struck down Washington’s emergency tariffs, following which Trump announced a temporary 10% duty on India and other countries for 150 days.

After the 150-day period ended, Trump announced a fresh 10% tariff on Indian imports. The US cited India’s continued imports of goods allegedly made using forced labour as the reason for the move.

The US House of Representatives passed a sanctions and tariff bill intended to increase economic pressure on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine and expand sanctions on Iran.

The legislation also authorised Trump to impose tariffs of up to 100% on goods from countries including India to reduce their dependence on Russian oil and gas.

India, in reply to the clearance of the sanctions bill, has said that it had warned Washington that such moves could impact bilateral ties, adding that it would work with trade and industry bodies to address the bill’s implications.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More