Six Russian drones struck an Indian pharma plant in Ukraine’s Sumy Sunday in what Kusum Group cofounder Sanjeev Gupta described as a “targeted attack”, killing an engineer and injuring some others. The main structure of the facility was largely destroyed.Speaking to TOI, Gupta said the attack was not an isolated incident and claimed that pharmaceutical and food facilities in Ukraine had also come under attack over the past month. “Six drones hit the factory. So, it is a targeted attack. It’s not by chance. Actually, for the last one month, they are attacking all pharma and food items also,” Gupta said.The plant was operational when the strikes took place, Gupta said. The engineering department was hit and one engineer was killed, while other workers were evacuated.Gupta said the extent of damage could keep the plant out of operation for at least one to two years.“We are not able to evaluate the losses right now. We will come to know more tomorrow. But as per my understanding, we will not run this plant in the near future,” he added.In a statement issued later Sunday, Kusum Healthcare Pvt Ltd said total damage from the attack was projected to breach the $50 million mark. The company said its India business and management were reviewing the situation as the extent of the destruction emerged. The Sumy facility covers around 50,000 sq metres and has five blocks, Gupta said.It has been manufacturing medicines in Ukraine since 2009, including products for segments such as cardiology and gastroenterology. Gupta said Kusum is the biggest Indian pharmaceutical company operating in Ukraine, with a market share of more than 3%. The latest attack is not the first major strike on Kusum’s Ukrainian operations.The company said its warehouse was destroyed by a Russian drone on April 14, 2025, with losses from that attack exceeding UAH 1 billion.Despite the latest setback, Gupta said the group plans to continue its business in Ukraine.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.