Why Opposition parties have not boycotted elections despite alleging polls are rigged

Keralam orders probe into 2006 corruption allegations against CEC Gyanesh Kumar

Jantar Mantar protest: Three journalists allege sexual assault by Delhi Police officers

Raj Thackeray demands end to EVM voting, scrapping of Maharashtra SIR

Neha Bora detained in ‘unauthorised vehicle’ on day 3 of protests against CEC, released hours later

Prashant Bhushan, AISA’s Neha Bora detained at Jantar Mantar on day 2 of protest against CEC

‘I try to write from within the body, acknowledging its innerness and mystery’: Poet Tishani Doshi

‘Delhi was a warzone, Mumbai a concert’: Protests against CEC Gyanesh Kumar strike contrasting notes

Ramachandra Guha: A century after Gandhi described the four pillars of swaraj, how do they hold up?

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha on Friday said that India’s proposal to end the war with Russia is the “most comprehensive” and broad, reported RBC-Ukraine.

“For the first time, India has signalled its willingness to play a role,” he told reporters.

Sybiha said that Kyiv had also received proposals from Egypt, Turkey and the United States.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 triggered the deadliest conflict in Europe since World War II.

The Ukrainian foreign minister said that his country was prepared to agree to an energy and agricultural truce in the Black Sea. However, any energy truce must entail a cessation of attacks on all power infrastructure, including facilities at ports, he was quoted as saying.

Several vessels, including many with Indians on board, have been struck in the Black Sea in recent months.

Sybiha also said that Kyiv was considering an unconditional ceasefire along the frontline with Russia, RBC-Ukraine reported.

On Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “very good ideas” for finding mutually acceptable solutions to end the conflict.

However, Putin ruled out an end to long-range strikes as Moscow intensified aerial attacks on Kyiv.

“We are told: ‘Let them stop striking your refineries, and you will stop striking their ships,’” Putin said. “It is simply ridiculous.”