NEW DELHI: Punjab Police deployed more than 2,000 personnel at Lovely Professional University (LPU) after student protests over an alleged rape case turned violent on Sunday, with senior officers saying the situation had been brought under control.ADGP M F Farooqui told news agency ANI, that the force would remain deployed on campus through the night to maintain security.“We will ensure security on the campus throughout the night... A force of over 2,000 personnel is currently deployed here. Law and order has been fully maintained and restored... The process is ongoing, and we are working to keep the situation under control,” Farooqui told ANI.He appealed to families not to panic, saying, “To the families whose daughters are staying in the hostel here: please do not worry; everyone is safe... The atmosphere here is completely calm, and the university students are also cooperating with us in restoring peace...”Fresh violence erupted on Sunday evening after the protesting students pelted stones at police personnel and attacked their vehicles, leaving several cops injured, officials said.The protests began after claims circulated on social media about the alleged rape of a university student on the LPU campus. Students later blocked National Highway 44 outside the university from around 8 am, according to officials.Police said the situation escalated when protesters allegedly pelted stones at personnel and attacked police vehicles. Officers used a lathi charge as they attempted to clear the highway, after which protesters moved towards the campus.Two police vehicles were set on fire, while several police personnel were injured.Jalandhar Police Commissioner Satinder Singh said reports of disturbances inside hostels were rumours and that checks had found no such incidents.“First of all, reports of disturbances in the hostels were merely rumours. All hostels have been checked, and there are no issues. Traffic has resumed, and the situation is normal,” Singh said.He added, “Other matters will be resolved through discussions with the students... Overall, the atmosphere is fine, and any minor issues will be addressed... Please inform the families that all students are safe and there is no cause for concern.”DIG (Jalandhar Range) Naveen Singla also said, “The situation has been brought under control. Traffic movement on NH-44 will be restored soon.”Meanwhile, LPU postponed its mid-term examinations until further notice and suspended regular classes for 10 days from September 28. The university urged students to remain calm, follow official instructions and stay connected for further updates.Police said the deployment would continue overnight as authorities work to maintain order on campus and assess the situation.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.