CHANDIGARH: CJP founder Abhijeet Dipke on Monday reacted to a video purportedly showing a woman student raising concerns about women’s safety amid protests at Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Punjab’s Phagwara.In the video shared by Dipke, a woman can be heard claiming that female students had been asked to remain inside their rooms. She also alleged that security guards had been removed and claimed that men carrying knives had entered a hostel.The claims could not be independently verified.Reacting to the video Dipke said, “A university campus should be one of the safest places for a woman. If women don’t feel safe even inside their hostels, we have a serious problem."“It’s 2026. Women should not have to protest, plead or fight for something as basic as their safety,” Dipke added further.The reaction came a day after students of LPU went on a rampage on the campus, vandalising property and blocking National Highway-44 over claims that an outsider had raped a female student on the university premises.Fresh violence erupted on Sunday evening after protesting students allegedly pelted stones at police personnel and attacked their vehicles, leaving several policemen injured, officials said.A large police force led by ADGP M F Farooqui later entered the LPU campus, with police saying the situation had been brought under control.Jalandhar Police Commissioner Satinder Singh, DIG (Jalandhar Range) Naveen Singla and Kapurthala SSP Gaurav Toora accompanied the force.“The situation has been brought under control. Traffic movement on NH-44 will be restored soon,” Singla said.Police said protesters had blocked NH-44 outside the campus from around 8am on Sunday. When police attempted to clear the road in the evening, some students allegedly threw water bottles at them and clashed with the force. Police resorted to lathi charge, following which the students moved towards the campus.Once inside, the students allegedly pelted stones at police personnel, officials said. Two police vehicles were also set on fire, while four to five police vehicles were damaged, Jalandhar Rural SSP Harvinder Singh Virk said.Police said a rape case had been registered against an unknown person on a complaint by students and an SIT had been formed to investigate the matter. The university, however, denied claims that a rape had taken place on the campus, describing them as “rumours”.Amid the unrest, LPU suspended classes for 10 days from Monday and postponed midterm examinations until further notice. The university also allowed students to return home after consulting their parents or guardians.Students who remain on campus have been advised to stay inside their hostels or places of residence and avoid unnecessary movement or involvement in any unrest, the university said.Traffic movement on NH-44, which had been blocked for more than 15 hours, was restored in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, police said. A police force remained deployed outside the university on Monday morning.Several students were seen leaving the campus after classes were suspended.You Can Also Check: Gold Rate in Chandigarh | Silver Rate in Chandigarh | Bank Holidays in Chandigarh | Public Holidays in Chandigarh | Chandigarh AQI | Weather in Chandigarh | Petrol Price in Chandigarh | Diesel Price in Chandigarh | CNG Price in Chandigarh | LPG Price in ChandigarhStay updated with the latest Chandigarh news. Download the TOI App.