Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Bank staff wear black dress during their duty in a bank as, on government order, banks open on Sunday for the first time in 3 days on the Eve of 3 days National Bank strike, in Kolkata on September 27 | Photo Credit: ANI

Bank unions on Sunday (September 28, 2026) deferred the proposed three-day nationwide strike after a meeting with bank managements.

“All banks will function normally now. There will be no strike. We had three main demands. Discussion was held on all of them in a meeting held at 9.30 pm today (Sunday). One of them was for a five-day working week. Decision has been taken to immediately form a high-level committee of IBA and UFBU to deliberate on the issue and to see how it can be implemented,” C. H. Venkatachalam, general secretary of All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) told The Hindu.

Seven representatives of the bank unions and six banking executives were present for the online meeting that lasted about an hour.

United Forum of Bank Unions (UBFU) issued a circular late on Sunday night announcing that an understanding had been reached with Indian Banks’ Association.

“As regards the PLI Scheme for Scale IV and above officers, the discussions can start with IBA to propose modifications to the Government in the scheme to address the observations of the Unions/ Associations. The residual issues as listed in the minutes dated 8.3.2024 will be discussed between the parties for expeditious resolution,” the UBFU circular said.

Devidas Tuljapurkar, chairperson of All India Bank of Maharashtra Employees’ Federation, expressed satisfaction over the meeting’s outcome. “The demand for a five-day week has been long pending. By accepting to form a committee, a positive step has been taken to find out how it can be implemented in consultation with all stakeholders, particularly the customers, so that they are not inconvenienced,” he told The Hindu.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.