Dramatic scenes unfolded at Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Phagwara, Punjab, as fresh violence ensued amid a protest by students there. Regular classes were suspended for 10 days, starting September 28, and mid-term examinations were also postponed.

Latest visuals from Lovely Professional University showed heavy Police deployment in the areas as students began leaving for their homes.

Students of Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Phagwara went on a rampage on the campus on Sunday, vandalising property and blocking a stretch of the New Delhi-Amritsar highway outside their campus.

Police said on Sunday a rape case was registered against an unknown person on a complaint by the students, and an SIT has been formed to investigate the matter, even though the university described the claims of the crime taking place on the campus as "rumours".

The protest began near Girls' Hostel-3 on the campus around 1 am on Sunday, after some students alleged that a female student staying there was raped by a plumber three days back, news agency PTI reported.

The students claimed that the victim girl, who was staying in Hostel No. 3, returned to her house after no action was taken in the matter, DIG Singla, who reached the spot, said.

They also claimed that the hostel warden was informed about the incident, but no action was taken.

Police have, however, said there was a "rumour" and an investigation is being conducted.

Police said a rape case was registered against an unknown person on a complaint by the students, and an SIT was formed to investigate the matter, even though the university authority denied claims of any rape incident on campus, calling them "rumours".

"We will analyse forensic samples, CCTV camera footage, call records, etc., before reaching a conclusion," Jalandhar Police Commissioner Satinder Singh, DIG (Jalandhar Range) Naveen Singla said.

Replying to a question, the DIG said the girl students are demanding that the entire hostel staff should comprise only women. "The management will address these demands," he said.

Asked about the students' claim of rape, LPU VC Jaspal Singh said the university doesn't know about any such incident, adding that the authorities will cooperate with the probe.

The LPU management maintained in a statement that there was no truth in the "rumours", with Registrar Monica Gulati saying some anti-social elements were spreading "false, baseless and fabricated" allegations.

LPU authorities claimed that certain anti-social elements were creating unnecessary confusion among the students to disturb the peaceful academic environment of the university.

The LPU also released a video statement of three female students of Room No. 504 of the hostel, claiming that no rape incident took place, saying they have been staying there for the past two months.

“The false narrative ends here. No speculation. No hearsay. Hear the truth directly from the students who were there. This video is published with the express consent of the students featured,” read the caption posted by the LPU alongwith the video.

In the videos doing the rounds on social media, some purported protesters with their faces covered with handkerchiefs were seen vandalising shops in the university mall and other properties on campus, while a few others could be seen taking some items from a grocery shop.

Fresh violence erupted on Sunday evening after the protesting students pelted stones at police personnel and attacked their vehicles, leaving several cops injured, officials told PTI.

The situation turned worse around 7.30 pm, when police were trying to evict the protesters blocking the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway (NH)-44 outside the campus since 8 am, when some students threw water bottles at them.

They also clashed with police, who resorted to lathi charge, prompting the students to run towards the campus, PTI reported. The angry students pelted stones and attacked police vehicles on the highway, leaving several personnel injured, officials said, adding that the protesters also set a couple of vehicles on fire.

A large force led by ADGP M F Farooqui later entered the LPU campus, with police saying the situation has been brought under control now.

Traffic movement on the National Highway-44 in Punjab's Phagwara was restored after over 15 hours of blockade. The traffic movement on the national highway resumed in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, Jalandhar Police Commissioner Satinder Singh said, adding that the situation was peaceful.

On students holding a protest at LPU, 27th Battalion Commandant Gurmeet Kaur said, "We have apprehended five youths. A 'datar' (a sickle-like weapon) and a walkie-talkie set have been recovered from them. They will now be interrogated... the investigation is currently underway."

Meanwhile, the Punjab Police on Sunday conducted a flag march at Lovely Professional University (LPU). Speaking to reporters on students holding a protest at LPU, ADGP Fayaz Far