What are EVs worth five years on? Not much, shows China’s used car market

Is calisthenics an effective form of exercise or just another fitness fad?

A gallery of memories: How Kolkata’s citizens are preserving the city’s Chinese heritage

Literary tourism: Why the places we love in books can never quite be found in real life

Review: Karthik Subbaraj’s ‘Dorothy’ has to be seen to be believed

Never mind the sunglasses. Nepal’s Balen Shah gives the UN a powerful argument about climate justice

Ramachandra Guha’s new book: Gandhi’s nonviolence prepared Indians to use their freedom responsibly

Delhi restricts entry to public parks after sunset following teen’s gang rape

One hundred years of Mahasweta Devi: Stories of subaltern heroes who live on in memory

Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma on Sunday slapped an Aam Aadmi Party worker during an altercation about the poor quality of a road in the national capital’s Tilak Nagar area, the party alleged.

In a video shared by the Opposition party, Verma can be seen grabbing the man’s mobile phone before appearing to slap him.

बीजेपी सरकार का मंत्री है या कोई गुंडा‼️दिल्ली सरकार में मंत्री प्रवेश वर्मा की सड़क का भ्रष्टाचार क्या उजागर हुआ, वो युवाओं को सरेआम थप्पड़ मारकर गुंडागर्दी पर उतर आए। pic.twitter.com/ZiXvjq3oNm

The man, identified as Saheb, handles social media for Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh and had gone to the site after the Public Works Department called them to inspect the road, ANI reported.

Saheb said he pointed out sections where the road surface was breaking apart, after which Verma slapped him. The video shows police personnel were present and tried to break the altercation.

Jarnail Singh claimed that instead of addressing concerns about the road, Verma slapped his colleague.

Former Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal shared a video of the incident and said the man was slapped simply for “exposing corruption in road construction”.

On the other hand, Verma claimed that the AAP worker had allegedly abused his family.

“When one of his [Jarnail Singh’s] workers started shouting abuses at my family, I reacted just as anyone would in the heat of the moment,” Verma said on social media.

आज की घटना के पीछे की पूरी सच्चाई सुनिए…लेकिन जो हुआ वो नहीं होना चाहिए था । pic.twitter.com/qWnMkPQtnJ

He also alleged that Jarnail Singh arrived at the site with “history-sheeter goons”, used abusive and indecent language.

Verma further claimed that the AAP MLA had been pressuring public works engineers to introduce him to the contractor and arrange a commission for him.

He also accused the MLA of visiting the site at night after the roadwork was completed to damage the newly laid road and record videos alleging corruption because he had not received a commission.