Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Rajasthan Chief Minister Bhajanlal Sharma greets State BJP President Madan Rathore as they celebrate the results of the Rajasthan Civic Polls 2026 at the BJP office, in Jaipur on September 14, 2026. | Photo Credit: ANI

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (September 14, 2026) hailed the BJP's victory in Rajasthan's urban local body elections and said the win is proof of the victory of truth over the "echo of falsehood".

The BJP emerged ahead of the Congress in Rajasthan's urban local body elections, winning 4,179 wards against the opposition party's 3,613 and securing clear majorities in four of the State's 10 municipal corporations.

"Heartfelt gratitude to the public for securing a resounding victory for the BJP in the Rajasthan local body elections. This is proof of the victory of truth over the echo of falsehood," Mr. Modi said in a post on X in Hindi.

The Prime Minister said this mandate from the people has once again made it clear that the double-engine government's policies of good governance and development have their full support.

Mr. Modi said with this win, the BJP's resolve to take the State to new heights of progress as well as bring happiness into the lives of every individual will be strengthened further.

"On this occasion, many congratulations to all the winning candidates as well as the dedicated and hardworking workers of the party," he said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.