CBI names Uddhav, Aaditya Thackeray in Sushant Singh Rajput’s former manager death case

‘Disappeared’: In Bengal, Muslims picked up from homes in midnight raids, sent to detention centres

Food history: How the French ‘stole’ and transplanted cloves in their colonies in the 18th century

News regulator fines Zee News Rs 2 lakh for ‘inflammatory’ coverage of pro-Palestine slogans at AMU

Rush Hour: Tarun Tejpal surrenders, Thackerays named in Disha Salian death case and more

In Pune, noise pollution debate raises the pitch ahead of Ganesh festival

Elon Musk, Sam Altman say they agree with Anthropic CEO on ‘slowing down’ AI development

Start the week with a film: ‘Call My Agent! The Movie’ brings back the charm of the original show

20 TMC MPs who had merged with Tripura-based NCPI to join BJP, claims rebel leader

Retail inflation rises to 4.8%, wholesale inflation to 9.9% in August

The Central Bureau of Investigation has named former Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, MLA Aaditya Thackeray, in the first information report filed in the death of Disha Salian, the former manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, NDTV reported on Monday.

Others named in the FIR include actors Dino Morea, Rhea Chakraborty and Sooraj Pancholi, ex-Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, and suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, IANS reported.

Disha Salian had allegedly died by suicide on June 8, 2020, in Mumbai. Six days later, Rajput was found dead at his residence.

The police had closed the case in 2021 and said that no evidence of foul play had been found. In March 2025, the celebrity manager’s father, Satish Salian, had moved the High Court seeking a CBI probe into her death.

Satish Salian claimed that his daughter had died under suspicious circumstances. In his petition, he alleged that she was gangraped and murdered. He also claimed that there had been a politically driven cover-up to shield “influential persons”.

He said he initially believed that the investigation was “genuine, but later found it to be a cover-up”.

On September 2, a division bench of the Bombay High Court directed the CBI to register an FIR based on a statement by Satish Salian.

The bench said the failure of the police to register an FIR for six years “raises more questions than answers”, PTI reported.

It also pulled up the police for continuing to treat the matter as an accidental death case and pointed to “glaring discrepancies” in the investigation.

The court also said that no one should be treated as a suspect in the case unless the investigating officer finds enough material to reasonably suspect their involvement.

In the FIR filed on Sunday, the CBI has accused Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister at the time, and others of playing “a significant role in the conspiracy and subsequent cover-up”, IANS reported.

“The concerned public servants and police officers are also liable to be investigated for destruction or suppression of case papers, files and other public records, fabrication of official records, and misuse of public funds, manpower and police machinery for unlawful purposes and for shielding the offenders,” the FIR stated.

Further, the agency called for an investigation into the alleged “commission of the principal offences, criminal conspiracy, subsequent creation and propagation of the false suicide story and suppression, destruction and/or fabrication of evidence”.