The Australian government will withdraw 24 expeditioners from its Macquarie Island research station as an expected H5 avian influenza (bird flu) mass mortality on the remote island poses psychosocial risks to staff.

The research station, where the 24 staff live and work, sits on the Southern Ocean island about 1,500km south-east of Tasmania.

While bird flu has not yet been detected on the island, experts “predict a high likelihood of a significant mortality event during the upcoming breeding season”.

The Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW) said the decision was “a necessary precaution” to protect staff from potential “prolonged psychological stress and other workplace impacts”.

The DCCEEW deputy secretary, Sean Sullivan, said the move was an “unusual measure, but is the most appropriate course of action”.

double quotation markOur first priority is the health and safety of our expeditioners. While the risk to humans of H5 bird flu is considered low, we can’t ignore the psychosocial risks of living near potentially large numbers of affected animals. Our expeditioners already live and work in one of the world’s most remote and challenging environments. It is important that we minimise any additional risks that could affect the wellbeing of our people and the safe operation of our stations.

Australia’s share market is staging a modest recovery, edging higher after a midweek inflation surprise hammered hopes that the Reserve Bank’s interest rate hiking cycle was over, AAP reports.

The S&P/ASX200 rose 30 points by midday, up 0.33% to 9,068.1, as the broader All Ordinaries lifted by 28.6 points, or 0.31% to 9,271.8.

Despite an overnight rally in US technology stocks supporting local IT names, domestic and global risks were weighing on investor confidence. Westpac economist Mantas Vanagas said:

double quotation markInvestors and analysts continue to assess the implications for future Reserve Bank policy decisions, now fully pricing in a rate hike before the end of the year, up from only a 50% chance at the start of this week.

Oil prices took a step higher after reports suggested that President Trump had rejected the idea of re-establishing the terms of the memorandum of understanding the US signed with Iran in June.

Consumer staples eased 1.1%, falling for a second session after rallying on the back of strong results from Coles and Woolworths, while cyclicals were down 1.7% since Monday.

Australian IT stocks outperformed the broader market, the segment charging 4.6% higher, as WiseTech, Xero and Technology One soared.

The Australian dollar is buying 71.97 US cents, up from 71.84 US cents on Thursday at 5pm.

A dolphin has died from H5 bird flu in South Australia, marking the second native mammal species to which the virus is known to have spread.

The common dolphin was found recently deceased near Goolwa on the state’s Fleurieu Peninsula and reported by a member of the public. State tests confirmed the animal was positive for H5N1 but samples had been sent to the Australian Centre for Disease Preparedness for further analysis. A government spokesperson said:

double quotation markWhile the detection in the common dolphin is a new development in Australia, there is evidence of dolphins and porpoises catching H5 bird flu overseas. Dolphins would not commonly eat birds but it is not unusual for them to sometimes interact.

It follows two earlier detections in long-nosed fur seals in SA at Beachport and the Pages Islands and a suspected detection in a red fox – a feral pest species – near Port Adelaide.

The federal government’s risk assessment rated common dolphins at high risk from bird flu, meaning they potentially face severe population declines where the virus takes hold.

UN response underway after ‘catastrophic’ flash floods devastate Nepal–Tibet border

Footage posted to social media by the United Nations shows the aftermath of deadly flash floods that swept through the Nepal–Tibet border.

The UN is among a number of humanitarian partners aiding the government-led response to the disaster.

This article includes content provided by Facebook. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. To view this content, click 'Allow and continue'.

The Australian government will withdraw 24 expeditioners from its Macquarie Island research station as an expected H5 avian influenza (bird flu) mass mortality on the remote island poses psychosocial risks to staff.

The research station, where the 24 staff live and work, sits on the Southern Ocean island about 1,500km south-east of Tasmania.

While bird flu has not yet been detected on the island, experts “predict a high likelihood of a significant mortality event during the upcoming breeding season”.

The Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW) said the decision was “a necessary precaution” to protect staff from potential “prolonged 