Donald Trump summoned the press pool to the Oval Office to witness him signing an executive order that directs the Department of the Interior to rename Lake Ontario as “Lake America”.

This comes after trade talks between Canada collapsed over the weekend and led to a fray of tariffs between Washington and Ottawa.

Trump claimed the name change was something “I’ve been thinking about for a long time”.

“Canada treats us very badly,” the president said. “People oftentimes they’ll ask me who’s the worst to deal with on trade, and I said that’s easy. Canada, they are the worst, and they feel entitled, and just we can’t have that.”

A 50% tariff on several Canadian imports kicked in on Saturday, with Trump threatening another round of 50% duties on Canadian steel, trucks, cars and auto parts to take effect in the new year. Mark Carney, Canada’s prime minister, hit back with 25-50% tariffs on hundreds of US goods.

This, of course, is not the first time the president has made renaming a body of water a priority. At the beginning of his second term in office he issued an executive order to rename the Gulf of Mexico to the “Gulf of America”.

Trump appeared to joke that there could be more to come: “We have a Gulf and we have a Lake – now all we need is an ocean. Maybe we’ll have to change the name of the Atlantic and/or the Pacific. Maybe we’ll change them both.”

This concludes our live coverage of the second Trump administration for the day. Here are the latest developments:

Documents obtained by the Guardian and interviews with military leadership show the war in Iran has depleted the US Navy’s budget.

A senior Democratic senator is calling for a criminal investigation into the US health secretary, Robert F Kennedy Jr, following reporting by the Guardian that indicated he lied during Senate confirmation hearings last year.

Donald Trump called the media into the Oval Office to watch him sign an executive order to rename Lake Ontario “Lake America”.

“The name Lake Ontario comes from the Wendat word Ontari’io, which, appropriately, means ‘the lake is beautiful, the lake is big’, Canada’s prime minister Mark Carney noted. “The name is more than 400 years old, predating both the Confederation of Canada and the Declaration of Independence of the United States of America.”

Three journalists who were fired by the Pentagon from a US government-funded news outlet sued the US Department of Defense in federal court in Washington DC on Thursday arguing that their dismissals were illegal and violated their First Amendment rights to free speech.

Two minutes before Air Force One landed in Houston on Thursday, Donald Trump posted a visual ranking of US presidents on his social media platform that described him as the “greatest” president, in a list that omitted, without explanation, 11 of his predecessors.

As critics of the president quickly pointed out, the illustrated ranking of presidents was an altered version of one published in Life magazine on 1 November 1948. The original illustrated an article about the rankings compiled by the Harvard professor Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr. who polled 55 historians, journalists and political scientists and asked them to rate presidents in one of five categories: great, near great, average, below average and failure.

In the article published the day before the 1948 election, Schlesinger explained that he had left out three presidents, William Henry Harrison who died after a month in office; James Garfield, who was shot four months after his inauguration; and Harry Truman, who was still serving out the term his predecessor Franklin D Roosevelt had been elected to before his death.

The date of the illustration explains why another eight presidents are missing from the list that puts Trump at the top.

Dwight Eisenhower, John F Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, George H W Bush and George W Bush all, of course, were elected after 1948.

But the graphic was updated to add not just Trump, who was two years old when the original was published, alone in a new category “greatest” but also to add to the list of “failures” at the bottom the names and images of Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Jimmy Carter.

The only other president to serve since 1948 to be added to the list was Bill Clinton, who, perhaps by dinted of having socialized with Trump, made his way into the “average” category, along with Herbert Hoover, whose reputation has fallen since 1948.

The original Schlesinger list was topped by six presidents: Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Franklin Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson. Only Lincoln was rated that way by all 55 of the experts.

Within hours of Donald Trump’s order, the US Geological Survey officially changed the name of Lake Ontario to Lake America in its Geographic Names Information System on Thursday. “The base maps for GNIS are in the process of being updated to reflect this name change,” the agency says on 