About 1,300 people including hundreds of tourists still missing as rescuers race to find survivors; Nepali army working to rescue the trapped from tunnel

Nepali army helicopter rescue teams are working to rescue about 100 people trapped inside a tunnel at a hydropower project swamped by Wednesday’s flash flood.

“Our focus is in search and rescue of people ... some people are trapped in the tunnel of Trishuli 3A hydropower project,” Nepal army spokesperson Raja Ram Basnet told Agence France-Presse.

The prime minister’s office said in a statement on Friday that 350 people had been rescued from the area but 100 more were trapped.

China has halted the rescue at the epicentre of the Tibet disaster over flood risk, state media is reportedly saying.

Nepali army helicopter rescue teams are working to rescue about 100 people trapped inside a tunnel at a hydropower project swamped by Wednesday’s flash flood.

“Our focus is in search and rescue of people ... some people are trapped in the tunnel of Trishuli 3A hydropower project,” Nepal army spokesperson Raja Ram Basnet told Agence France-Presse.

The prime minister’s office said in a statement on Friday that 350 people had been rescued from the area but 100 more were trapped.

The Nepalese army says it is working to rescue 100 people trapped in a hydropower tunnel after the flooding.

The family of two Sydney boys who went missing with their parents in Nepal say they remain hopeful they will be found safe.

The four were taking part in a pilgrimage when the flood hit and are among 39 Australians identified as missing in the region.

Nino Bucci and Henry Belot report that the mother’s sister Vaishnavi said she had lost contact with the family shortly after breakfast on the morning of the flood.

They planned to head towards an immigration checkpoint on the Tibet-Nepal border soon after, as part of the group of 15 Australians trekking as part of a tour.

double quotation markJust like everyone else that’s part of that group, we’re really worried, but hopeful. Hopeful that they’re safe and just waiting to be rescued.

It’s a very difficult time for our whole family … I just want to make people aware that they’re there, and we’re waiting, and we just want them to return.

Nepal police have said that the death toll from Wednesday’s flash flood now stands at 469.

It’s a jump of 80 since the last reported update, and comes as search teams continue recovery efforts across the disaster-struck area. More than 1,300 remain missing, including hundreds of tourists from India, the US, Britain, Australia and Canada.

Efforts to locate those unaccounted for have been complicated by the destruction of dozens of bridges and 40km (25 miles) of roads in the mountainous region, which is popular with trekkers and pilgrims.

Rescuers have evacuated 555 stranded tourists from Tibet, Chinese state media reported on Friday.

State broadcaster CCTV said 499 local residents, as well as 555 tourists, had been transported out of the disaster zone as of Friday morning.

Chinese authorities have warned that an artificial lake formed after a catastrophic flash flood hit the China-Nepal border on Wednesday faces a “high risk of breaching and sending flood waters downstream”, according to state media.

“According to forecasts, inflows into the lake could reach about 3 million cubic meters over the next three days amid continued rainfall, increasing the risk of a breach that could send flood waters downstream and potentially cause further damage in areas including Gyirong Port and elsewhere downstream”, state news agency Xinhua reported late on Thursday.

Nepal has also warned of new flooding risks, with the country’s disaster authority saying water levels were rising in a lake formed by debris clogging a flooded site and ‌that it was at risk of bursting its banks. It did not name the specific site.

It comes as rescue teams and military helicopters continue their search for hundreds of missing people along the mountainous border, with the Red Cross saying about 93,000 people might have been affected. The aid agency launched an emergency appeal for $31m to respond to the disaster.

Rescue teams and military helicopters are searching for hundreds of missing people along the mountainous Nepal-Tibet border after the huge torrent of water and mud swept through communities following a glacier collapse on Wednesday.

More than 390 people were killed, authorities in Nepal and China said, and more than 1,400 were missing, including hundreds of foreign citizens and pilgrims.

More than 500 foreign citizens were among 826 people missing in Nepal, police and tourism ⁠officials said. Among those unaccounted for were 177 from India, 90 from the US, 39 from Australia, 33 from Britain and 25 from Canada.

Chinese state media said at least 558 were missing on the Tibet side of the border, of whom at least 260 were foreign nationals.

UN humanitarian chief Tom Fletcher said he ordered the release of $2m from the 