On 21st June Union government announced the enforcement of the Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means ) Act, 2024 by releasing a statement: “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 1 of the Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2024 (1 of 2024), the Central Government hereby appoints the 21st day of June 2024, as the date on which the provisions of the said Act shall come into force.” This act was passed by Parliament on the 9th of February and got presidential assent on the 12th of February 2024.

The Act outlines several key provisions to curb cheating and promote fair conduct in public examinations. Here’s a breakdown of some major points:

The Act broadly defines “unfair means” to include various malpractices, such as:

Enforcement of the act after leaks of two of the biggest exams in the country gave rise to questions regarding the reason behind the delay. The Act was passed to prevent unfair means but what matters if the act has been passed after unfair means have already been practiced. An Act that is passed by Parliament can be on such that the government will retain it and decide on another date to bring it to the notice of Parliament. If an Act does not contain such a provision, the Act obtains legal force as soon as it receives the President’s signature.

It is also important to note at some times, the Act will also provide for the coming into operation of the Act to be on a date specified by the Act. Parliament authorizes this power to the government so that the government can put appropriate measures, structures, and institutions in place to implement the Act. Therefore, Section 1 (2) of The Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2024 also confirms that it will be effective from such date as the central government may specify by notification in the official gazette. The government also did this by fixing 21 June as a date when various provisions of the Act shall take effect.

According to section 16(1) of the Act, the Centre has to make rules which have to be notified in the official gazette for the implementation of the provisions of the Act. Section 16(2) provides that such rules may contain provisions of how and in what manner public examinations may be conducted, as well as any other matter touching on the examinations that may be prescribed. Section 17 provides that each rule made under the Act is to be laid before each house of parliament while it is sitting for a total of 30 sitting days to be approved.

The delay in notifying the Act would have been justified if the government had framed Rules in the period intervening between the passing of the Act and notification. Since the general election to Parliament hindered the formation of mechanisms and setting of Rules, there was no need to notify the Act on June 21. It could have waited for the laying of Rules in the next parliamentary session if it had anticipated the move of the other House. Without such Rules in the Act, several provisions of the Act would be of little application in the country.

Examination malpractices in India are not new, characterized by numerous high-profile incidents that have exposed the vulnerabilities and loopholes in the system. These malpractices range from leakage of question papers to impersonation and bribery, affecting the integrity of examinations at various levels.

The CBSE paper leak in the year 2018 was one of the biggest examination scandals that was reported in recent years. The Mathematics paper of Class 10 and the Economics paper of Class 12 were leaked at the social networking sites before the actual dates of examinations and it caused troubles for more than two millions of students. This fuelled the already aggrieved students, parents, and educators into calling for strict & appropriate measures to be taken in order to ensure the prevention of such occurrences in the future.

Police introduced the CBI in the case to investigate the leakage, and based on the leakage that unfolded through the pages, another network that circulated the papers through the Use of the WhatsApp group was unveiled. It was an eye-opener in the aspect of security in the examination process, as well as the laxity in penalties meted on those involved in fraudulent activities concerning examinations.Vyapam Scam (2013)

The case of Madhya Pradesh Vyapam exam fraud was one of the largest and complex scandals in the examinations in India. It was a major aftermath relating to cheating in the entrance examinations for the medical and various other professional courses conducted by the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB).

Some of the practices adopted included impersonation, offering of gifts to some people and altering records. More than 2000 people including politicians, civil servants, and touts have been accused in the scam. That is why the Supreme Court of India launched a CBI investigation, as a result of which many arrests and trials were 