Trump said he thinks his defense secretary ‘has done a great job’

Asked by a reporter if he is frustrated with Pete Hegseth’s advice on Iran early on in the war, Trump expressed confidence in his defense secretary and said he thinks his Hegseth “has done a great job”.

Trump has said that Hegseth and others led him to believe that Iran was actively preparing to attack the United States if Washington did not strike first. They advised him that the situation with Iran was rapidly approaching “a point of no return” and advocated for pre-emptive military action.

Trump also claimed to reporters on Air Force One that Iran requested a meeting “through their surrogates and directly”.

double quotation markThey want to meet, and we’re meeting. Without what we did, they wouldn’t even be talking to us … They would not have requested the meeting if we were doing poorly. The only reason they want to meet is because we’ve been hitting them very hard.

Donald Trump wrapped up remarks at the General Motors Proving Ground in Milford, Michigan a short time ago with a pair of lies he has repeated many, many times.

The first was his claim that “mail-in ballots are inherently corrupt” and the only reason for anyone to oppose his drive to require proof of citizenship to register to vote, and photo ID to cast a ballot, is that his opponents want to cheat.

“We want voter photo ID. And we want all voters showing proof of a thing called citizenship,” Trump said late in his speech. “You read recently in New Jersey, where tremendous numbers of people were found out that they were on the voter rolls totally illegally, and that’s all over the country,” he added, mischaracterizing the scale of a computer glitch in New Jersey’s automatic voter registration system for licensed drivers that mistakenly registered about 6,600 people who identified themselves as non-US citizens.

According to the state’s governor, Mikie Sherrill, who last week revealed the software error that was corrected before the 2024 election, “fewer than 400 individuals who were newly registered for the first time because of the error voted,” and they were registered as Republicans, Democrats and Independents.

“While administrative errors such as New Jersey’s do infrequently occur, they are very rare and affect a very small fraction of voters, David Becker, a voting rights expert who leads the nonprofit Center for Election Innovation & Research said. “In this case, the number of wrongful registrations represents a miniscule fraction, roughly 0.1%, of New Jersey’s total active voter registration records in 2024.”

The president went on to claim that even he had been asked for ID when he voted at some unspecified time in the past. “Even me, I went to vote. ‘Sir, may I please see your identification? Sir, I’m so embarrassed; I know you’re Trump. Please. Do you have some identification? I don’t want to lose my job.’ I whipped out- I was lucky I had some kind of a card on me, I didn’t even know, but I gave it.”

Trump did not say when this exchange took place, but he reportedly voted by mail himself earlier this year in a March special election in Florida even though he was in Palm Beach on the day the ballot was requested and returned.

Trump did vote in person in Palm Beach in the 2024 and 2020 general elections, but his fuzzy memory about what sort of “a card” he provided as ID when asked at the polls suggests that it could have been a debit card, which was a sort of non-photo ID acceptable at the time to vote, along with other cards, like student IDs or retirement center IDs, that Florida poll workers could accept before the state’s law changed this year. Under the new law none of those forms of ID will be accepted any longer, requiring voters to produce a new form of drivers’ license that confirms citizenship, or a passport or a birth certificate along with another form of photo ID.

While Trump has repeatedly cast doubt on voting rights advocates who oppose proof of citizenship and photo ID to register and cast ballots, a 2023 survey by the Brennan Center suggested that “more than 9 percent of American citizens of voting age, or 21.3 million people, don’t have proof of citizenship readily available”, meaning a passport, birth certificate, or naturalization papers. “And at least 3.8 million don’t have these documents at all, often because they were lost, destroyed, or stolen.”

The Center for Democracy and Civic Engagement at the University of Maryland reported in 2024 that nearly 21 million voting-age US citizens “do not have a current (non-expired) driver’s license” and another 28.6 million have a non-expired license, but it does not have both their current address and current name.

Before leaving Michigan, Trump also repeated a tale he has been telling for a decade, despite the fact that it is not true: that he was named Michigan’s Man of the Year before he ran for president.

“I was here 25 years ago. I got Man of the Year,” Trump said, as he has claimed in the