NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on Monday commended CRPF on its 'Raising Day' for displaying "unwavering courage and commitment to duty" and for "winning every battle to ensure India's internal security".They particularly appreciated the role played by CRPF personnel in eliminating Left-wing extremism from the country. The task was 'accomplished' within the March 31, 2026 deadline set by home minister Amit Shah last year.Conveying his 'Raising Day' greetings to CRPF personnel, the Prime Minister posted on X: "...CRPF has distinguished itself through its unwavering courage and commitment to duty. From safeguarding internal security to serving citizens during challenging situations, CRPF personnel have always placed the nation first. Their efforts in eliminating the menace of Maoism are particularly notable and have contributed to peace and progress in the lives of several people".Shah too posted: "...Since its foundation, @crpfindia has set countless milestones of pride by winning every battle to ensure India's internal security. Whether it is stamping out Naxalism or shielding India's peace and progress with resolute valor, the force has always lived up to the nation's expectations. A proud salute to the warriors who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty".The appreciation for CRPF comes even as its anti-riot unit, Rapid Action Force (RAF), is under the scanner for allegedly using pump-action guns during the July 20 protest march to Parliament. At least three people claimed to have sustained pellet injuries.CRPF has already launched a probe into the alleged use of pellets and whether their use was authorised, justified by the conditions on the ground and part of a graded response, and in line with standard protocols. It will also assess the pressure that the RAF field formation may have faced due to violent crowd behaviour. Nearly 47 RAF personnel, CRPF sources told TOI, were injured at the hands of "motivated elements" who appear to have infiltrated the protests. Six personnel sustained head injuries and four others suffered fractures.CRPF DG Gyanendra Pratap Singh had told TOI Saturday that the force was conducting a professional post-event assessment and would finalise the report with detailed findings soon.Sources said Shah may respond to issues raised by Lok Sabha leader of opposition Rahul Gandhi during the discussion on Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Amendment Bill, 2026.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.