India, on Monday, summoned Ukrainian ambassador Oleksandr Polishchuk for a strong protest over the death of an Indian seafarer in a Ukrainian attack on a merchant vessel in Russian waters, with the external affairs ministry condemning such strikes and highlighting their adverse impact on freedom of navigation and global commerce.

Chief officer Sagar Gupta, one of three Indian seafarers in the crew of the Marshall Islands-flagged MV Omorfi, was killed when the bulk carrier was hit by two drones in Russian territorial waters while transiting the Black Sea on July 18. India had already condemned the attack last week and reiterated its call to uphold international obligations for the safety and security of maritime navigation.

The external affairs ministry said Polishchuk was summoned in connection with the attack on MV Omorfi, which resulted in the “tragic death” of an Indian national.

“The ministry conveyed its serious concern over the incident and condemned such attacks on commercial shipping in the strongest terms, underscoring their adverse impact on the safety of maritime navigation, freedom of navigation, and international commerce,” it said in a statement.

Polishchuk was requested to convey to Ukrainian authorities “India’s strong concerns over the targeting of commercial vessels”. The ministry said, “Such actions, which endanger the lives of innocent civilian seafarers, are unacceptable and must be avoided”.

The summoning of the Ukrainian ambassador follows similar actions against senior diplomats of Iran, the US and Russia in recent weeks over attacks against merchant vessels with Indian crew members in the Strait of Hormuz and the Black Sea.

Five Indian seafarers have died in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, while two more were reported missing following an attack on the Palau-flagged MV AGN Ragnar in Odesa port on July 25. More than half a dozen Indian seafarers have also been killed in Iranian and US attacks on merchant vessels in the Strait of Hormuz in recent weeks.

Earlier in the day, the Ukrainian embassy in New Delhi extended its “profound sympathy” to families of Indian seafarers killed as a result of the deteriorating security situation in the Black Sea and said Ukrainian foreign minister Andrii Sybiha had sent a letter of condolence to external affairs minister S Jaishankar.

Sybiha has proposed a conversation with Jaishankar to discuss the current security situation in the Black Sea, the embassy said in a statement.

Also Read | 'Exercise utmost caution': India issues advisory for nationals taking up work on vessels in Black Sea

Ukraine has consistently warned its international partners, including senior Indian officials, about growing threats to civilian navigation because of Russia's actions in the Black Sea, the statement said.

Russia’s attacks in the Black Sea caused “numerous civilian casualties among seafarers, maritime pilots and crew members of merchant vessels” during 2025-2026, including strikes against port infrastructure and ships using Ukraine’s maritime export corridor.

The Ukrainian embassy said threats and risks to civilian navigation due to Russia’s aggressive actions in the Black Sea and Sea of Azov “can be minimised through an immediate response to any preventive warnings regarding the security situation in the region”.

The embassy also noted the maritime security advisory issued by India’s Directorate General of Maritime Administration on July 23 for Indian ships and foreign-flagged vessels with Indian seafarers transiting or operating in the Black Sea, and said Ukraine believes timely and preventive action by competent authorities is vital to protect sailors, ensure the safety of civilian navigation, and strengthen international maritime security.

The statement said Ukraine has also informed partners about measures it is taking to prevent the delivery of military cargo and disrupt logistical routes used to sustain Russia’s war of aggression. These concerns were communicated within the framework of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), including circular letters dated June 12 and 26.

Rezaul H Laskar is the Foreign Affairs Editor at Hindustan Times. His interests include movies and music.