Two more Australians have been confirmed safe in the aftermath of the devastating Nepal-Tibet floods.

The pair, who were previously uncontactable, have been found safe and do not require consular assistance.

It brings the total number of Australians missing in the floods down to 36.

Fifteen people in the Australian disaster assistance response team are expected to arrive in Kathmandu later today, while seven AFP disaster victim identification specialists are to arrive on Saturday morning.

More than 1,200 people have been confirmed dead in the disaster, with more than 5,500 people missing.

Four in five Australians believe governments should deliver social services directly but a majority no longer think politicians serve their interests, AAP reports.

A new report from the Centre for Policy Development comes amid a surge in support for One Nation as voters vent anger at the two major parties.

The research found more than 80% of people surveyed want governments to maintain the capability to deliver social services directly and believe health, education and childcare must be universally affordable.

But almost six in 10 people believe their elected representatives do not serve their interests, a figure that has steadily increased.

Almost 70% of people surveyed viewed modern politics as far more concerned with short-term political gains than addressing long-term challenges.

The research also found 65% of people want ordinary citizens to have a much greater say in setting core policy priorities.

Chris Bowen said he would meet members of the Nepali Australian community later today.

The minister said news two other Australians were safe was a welcome development but for other families of the 36 still missing or unaccounted for, the reality is just “gut-wrenching”:

double quotation markEvery person who’s been rescued or found is a relief to their family and to the broader Australian community. But of course, we still have 36 Australians who are missing and unaccounted for, which is just gut-wrenching for all Australians and for the Nepalese Australian community in particular, whom I’m spending time with later today.

But all I can say is that we’re continuing to send any support that the Nepalese government asked for.

Chris Bowen has called a joint statement about China’s missile test “strong” despite it not referring to the nation by name.

One of the biggest talking points of this week’s Pacific Islands Forum been the lack of a regional response to China’s nuclear-capable inter-continental ballistic missile test in July, as AAP reports.

The communique includes a reference to the Fiji-led Ocean of Peace declaration made last year, which states that the region should be free from coercion and militarisation. It doesn’t name China.

Speaking to ABC’s Radio National, the climate change and energy minister said:

double quotation markI think that leaders in the Pacific were deeply concerned: one, that a missile test was done without permission of the countries whose airspace it had travelled through, and two, that there was no notice of the said missile test. So I think it’s both. It is a concern about sovereignty and safety, and one that Australia fully backs. It’s a pretty strong statement, Sally, and one that Australia played a role in crafting.

‘Serious concerns’ for missing Australians, Jim Chalmers says

The Albanese government still has “serious concerns” for the Australians missing in the Nepal-Tibet floods, Jim Chalmers says.

Speaking to ABC’s News Breakfast, the treasurer said it was “good news that two Australians have been located overnight:

double quotation markThat would be a huge relief to the loved ones of these two Australians who’ve been located, but we still have very serious concerns for the 36 Australians that we haven’t been able to be located yet.

Chalmers said about 40 of Australia’s “best” personnel were either on the ground or en route to assist in recovery and humanitarian efforts. Unicef warned overnight that at least 22,000 children urgently need safe drinking water and better sanitation.

Coalition says main focus of tobacco excise cut is tackling organised crime

Anne Ruston, the shadow minister for health and aged care, spoke this morning to tout the Coalition’s plans to slash the tobacco excise by 80%, saying the effort was designed to “break the business model” of organised crime.

Ruston spoke to RN Breakfast this morning, saying that after the government wrested control back of the cigarette market with a lower excise, it could step in to “put in place the things to try and make sure that, first of all, we encourage Australians not to smoke, not to use nicotine products”.

Ruston was asked if cheaper tobacco products would lead to an uptick in smoking rates. She had this to say:

double quotation markThis is very much designed to try and get the government back in control of the nicotine market, not organised crime gangs.

We are hoping that the combined package of 