Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

ISRO successfully launches the GSLV-F17/EOS-05 mission from the Second Launch Pad at Satish Dhawan Space Centre. (Screengrab) (X/@ISRO)

The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which has had a quiet year so far, is back to winning ways with the successful launch of the state-of-the-art Earth observation spacecraft, EOS-05.

The Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) on its 19th flight placed the EOS-05 into the intended Sub-Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit 18 minutes after it lifted off from the second launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota at 2.55 a.m. on September 4.

The EOS-05 is India’s first ever imaging satellite to monitor from Geosynchronous orbit about 36,000 km above the Earth.

“I am very happy to announce that the GSLV-F17 vehicle has successfully and precisely injected the advanced Earth observation satellite EOS-05 in the intended and required orbit, “ ISRO Chairman Dr. V. Narayanan said.

He added that this was the 107th launch from the spaceport in Sriharikota and 19th mission of the GSLV.

“The first launch of the GSLV- D1 was done with a payload of 1536 kg from that gradually we have improved the performance of this vehicle by optimising the structural mass, improving the propulsion systems and today we have injected the heaviest satellite, a 2367 kg satellite using this launch vehicle,” he added.

The ISRO Chairman said that once the Earth observation satellite, EOS-05 is operationalised in orbit it will become India’s first dedicated imaging satellite from the Geo Orbit providing important strategic data for our country.

“From the satellite data we confirm all the valves are operating perfectly, the solar panel is deployed and the health of the satellite is perfectly alright.

In the coming days we will raise the orbit and take it to the required orbit and place the satellite in the Geo platform for national activities,” the ISRO Chairman said.

The EOS-05 satellite dubbed as Eye in the Sky will provide real-time imagery besides helping agriculture, environment, disaster management among others.

The successful launch of the EOS-05 comes as a huge relief for ISRO which has not carried out any launch activities since the failure of the PSLV-C62 mission carrying the EOS-N1 earth observation satellite on January 12, 2026.

The space agency since the back to back failures of PSLV-C62 and the PSLV-C61 in May 18, 2025 had taken a cautious approach and refrained from carrying out any launches.

Though seven missions including the GSLV-F17/EOS-05 were scheduled to take place in the first quarter of 2026, ISRO did not lauch any satellites.

The successful launch of the 2367 kg EOS-05 satellite, also puts behind the failure which ISRO had encountered in August 2021 with the GSLV-F10 / EOS-03 mission.

Back then, the GSLV-F10 / EOS-03’s mission performance was normal during the first and second stages. However, the cryogenic upper stage ignition did not happen due to a technical anomaly, and the mission remained unsuccessful. The EOS-05 satellite replaces the unsuccessful EOS-03 mission.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.