The Russia-Ukraine conflict will be resolved through dialogue and diplomacy and not by dwelling over who is buying oil from where, said external affairs minister S Jaishankar rejecting the Western narrative that countries buying energy from Russia are bankrolling President Vladimir Putin's war.Reiterating India's stance, the minister stressed that while the responsibility of ending the conflict rested with the parties involved, New Delhi stood ready to extend any necessary assistance to facilitate peace. Jaishankar was speaking alongside his Ukraine counterpart Andrii Sybiha in Kyiv after a meeting in which he recalled PM Narendra Modi's message to Putin last week that the endless war must now give way to end of war. The minister also called on President Volodymyr Zelensky later to discuss "approaches to end the ongoing conflict".Jaishankar's terse reaffirmation of India's position that its energy sourcing is driven by national interests and the need to ensure adequate, affordable and reliable supplies came in response to a question if India would consider cutting down purchase of Russian oil because of US sanctions."It's important that you get the challenges of providing energy for 1.4 billion people at a time when the world energy situation is very difficult. Ukraine has its perspective, which we respect. And we have ours, which I would expect others to also respect," said the minister. "This conflict, which is today in its fifth year, will not be solved because somebody is buying or not buying oil or minerals or fertilisers. This conflict will be solved by dialogue, by diplomacy, by negotiations ... and that's why it is something we would encourage."Zelensky later said that even while Jaishankar was in Ukraine, Russia launched jet-powered Shahed drones that were developed not without Iran's help. Zelensky also thanked India for its commitment to ending "this unjust war - Russia's war against Ukraine". He added, "This certainly must not be a time of war. Peace is needed. This is India's clear position."This was Jaishankar's first visit to Ukraine since he accompanied Modi for his landmark trip to Kyiv, months after his visit to Moscow. Asked if India was looking forward to hosting Zelensky, the EAM did not confirm if he was going to extend an invitation to him. He invited Sybiha to visit India, though. Jaishankar reiterated Modi's message that each passing day of conflict only means more deaths and more destruction. "Understandably, it is for the parties involved to find a way. But, if India can be of any help in any manner, we are ready, and this was the core of my discussion so far with Sybiha," he said.Among other related issues raised were attacks on commercial shipping, with Jaishankar underlining that Indian seafarers man ships of many flags and have been among the casualties. "The impact on shipping is also significantly affecting many nations of the Global South," he said.In his remarks, Sybiha briefed Jaishankar about the "escalation from Russia and systemic Russian attacks on civilian ships, ports and infrastructure" and expressed condolences for the loss of Indian lives.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.