Ahead of Mohan Bhagwat visit, UK groups urge mayor to deny London Authority venue for RSS event

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Rush Hour: Satyendar Jain gets bail, Raghav Chadha claims name deleted in Punjab SIR and more

Two days after Bhagwat’s speech in New York, 90 US politicians pledge to not take RSS-linked funding

A new book shows that in 1881, the Mysore Representative Assembly was already pursuing self-rule

Delhi: Two women journalists allege police assaulted them for asking CM Rekha Gupta a question

‘Gandhari’ review: Film about child sex trafficking is all a blur

Rush Hour: Modi reiterates call for austerity, CJP cancels September 5 march and more

Flood risks to Nepal hydropower project were known – but banks ignored them

7.8% GDP growth claim shaky, Centre must provide explanation, says Congress

The Congress on Thursday claimed that there was “growing evidence of irregularities” in the gross domestic product growth numbers released earlier this week, and said that the Narendra Modi-led government must explain the figures.

Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that if the methodology behind the numbers was examined, “the whole thing starts looking rather shaky”.

According to figures released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, the Indian economy grew by 7.8% in the April-June quarter. The Centre said that the manufacturing sector grew 9.2% during the first quarter of the financial year 2026-’27. This was up from 8.3% in the same period last year. The services sector grew 10%, compared with 8% a year ago, it added.

Ramesh noted on Thursday that the numbers for the previous year’s April-June quarter were revised four times from around Rs 86 lakh crore to around Rs 80 lakh crore.

“If you keep shrinking the base you’re comparing against, this year’s number will automatically look much bigger than it really is, even if nothing has actually changed on the ground,” the Congress said in a statement on social media. “That is simple arithmetic, not economic growth.”

Ramesh referred to an estimate by former Finance Secretary Subhash Chandra Garg that if the base year had not been revised down, nominal growth would be closer to 2.6% rather than the government’s claim of 10.3%.

The Congress further noted that the government had revised GDP growth figures for all four years since 2022-’23.

“Taken together, the GDP has been revised down by Rs 43 lakh crore across 4 years,” the party said. “This is a very large ‘correction’.”

Our statement on the growing evidence of irregularities in the just-released GDP figures. The Modi Government must answer 4 straight questions pic.twitter.com/JTOcRPusXS

Ramesh also asked why the Union government’s deflator for the April-June quarter came down to just 2.5%, arguing that it did not accurately reflect inflation.

Real GDP is calculated by nominal GDP by the deflator and then multiplying by 100, with the aim of eliminating the effect of inflation.

“Now ask any household running a kitchen budget whether prices have gone by only 2.5% this year and you will get quite a different answer,” the Congress leader remarked.

Ramesh said that the figures appeared most suspect on the indicators of manufacturing and consumption. “According to Mr Garg’s calculations, manufacturing GVA [Gross Value Added] has actually shrunk by 5.2% compared to last year, while private consumption has fallen by 5.4%,” he noted.

On Tuesday, Sanjeev Sanyal, a member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, in an interview to India Today, denied allegations of data manipulation.

Sanyal said that there had been a problem with the methodology to calculate GDP until the base year was updated last year.

The base year is updated at the beginning of each decade, he told the news channel. However, it could not be revised at the start of this decade as the Covid-19 pandemic did not reflect normal economic conditions, he said.

“We had to wait till 2024 before we could get a typical year which we could use as base year,” he added.

On Tuesday as well, the Congress described the GDP numbers as “statistical gymnastics” being used to hide “India’s bleak economic reality”.

Written by Neerad Pandharipande. Edited by Tanya Shrivastava.