Review: India’s Oscar pick ‘Gondhal’ is a rural lust story about macho men and wily women

At least 82% of voters deleted during Bengal SIR have appealed against removal, EC data shows

Congress candidate for Nandigram bye-poll arrested hours after Mamata extends support

Trump signs bill allowing 100% tariffs on India, other countries for buying Russian oil

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Mumbai Police pressured 2 venues into cancelling Umar Khalid film screening, allege organisers

‘I’m not Mr Political’: Ed Sheeran’s stance has larger implications, explains an ethicist

How dreaded dacoit Phoolan Devi became an irresistible legend

Trinamool symbol order: EC gave repeated extensions to rebel faction, then said ‘time not adequate’

United States President Donald Trump on Friday announced that the US had reached a deal with Denmark that gives Washington “permanent control over security” in Greenland.

Trump had been demanding that Washington be given “ownership” of Greenland citing national security concerns, and had sought negotiations to discuss the acquisition of the Danish territory.

While Greenland is self-governed, it relies on the Danish government for defence and foreign policy.

Trump said on Friday that the agreement addresses all of the US’ security concerns and that there will be “no cost” to Washington.

He said that the deal negotiated with Denmark and Greenland would “guarantee that the United States will forever have the complete ability to do what is necessary” in the region “in order to secure and defend the security” of the US and the Artic island.

The US president further said that no adversary could now have military presence or a base in Greenland without permission from Washington. He said that it was an “infinite life” agreement with no end.

The US will “immediately begin” developing a large military presence in Greenland, he added.

The Danish prime minister’s office said that the agreement will be signed next week at the UN General Assembly. The deal will take effect “subject to the necessary national parliamentary procedures”, it added.

Trump said that for more than 100 years, US presidents had known the strategic importance of Greenland, but none of them had been able to do anything about it. “I am proud to be the president that permanently and conclusively addressed this very important situation,” he said.

Trump had repeatedly raised the idea of acquiring Greenland from Denmark. He first floated the idea in 2019 during his first term as the president. Greenland has maintained that it does not want to be part of the US, which already operates a military base on the island.

In January, Trump stated that Washington needed control of the Arctic island for “national security”, to prevent Russia or China from occupying it.

Moscow and Beijing have made no territorial claim over Greenland.

On January 9, Trump said that the US could use force to seize Greenland. A week later, he indicated that he could punish countries with tariffs if they do not support Washington controlling Greenland.

On Friday, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said that the deal will strengthen “our common security” in the Arctic region and the North Atlantic Area “and therefore is great for NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organization] and Europe as well”. She added that the agreement recognises the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Denmark and the Greenlandic people’s right to self-determination.

The US and Denmark are among 32 North American and European countries that form the military alliance, who promise to protect each other if any one of them is attacked.

Greenland’s Prime Minister Jens-Frederik Nielsen said that “it is encouraging that we are about to make an agreement that will ensure and strengthen the security” of the region, Denmark, the US and the “Western Alliance”.

The agreement recognises Greenland’s “interests and our place in the international cooperation”, he said, adding that the deal will “benefit of us all”.

In January, Frederiksen warned that a US invasion of Greenland would end “everything”, referring to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Leaders from major European countries and Canada have rallied behind the Arctic territory, saying that Greenland “belongs to its people”.