Iran has formally conveyed its conditions to Washington for ending the war, with it's top official saying it has set out seven conditions for restarting negotiations while warning that it is also prepared for a “decisive war”.Iran’s supreme national security council secretary Mohsen Rezaei told Al Jazeera in an exclusive interview that Qatar had passed Tehran’s conditions to Washington and that Iran was awaiting US President Donald Trump’s response. “Our conditions are an end to the war on all fronts, the release of our frozen funds and an end to the naval blockade,” Rezaei said.“It is in Washington’s interest to accept these conditions. Trump’s threats will not achieve any results. We are prepared for a decisive war,” he added.In a separate post on X, he confirmed that it had announced seven conditions for starting negotiations with the US, saying Washington would have to accept Iran’s “rights and conditions” if it wanted to “escape the quagmire” and avoid becoming further entangled in the conflict.“It is in Washington’s interest to accept these conditions. Trump’s threats will not achieve any results. We are prepared for a decisive war,” Rezaei added.Meanwhile, Rezaei also told Al Jazeera that Iran was also preparing for the possibility of another US strike, describing it as “very much on the cards”. He said Tehran had changed its military planning and was now focused on US naval assets across the Gulf, the Gulf of Oman and the Arabian Sea.He claimed Iran had recently test-fired a multi-warhead anti-ship missile near a US vessel or aircraft carrier and warned that any future Iranian response would include US bases and American commercial interests in the region.At the same time, Rezaei said Tehran was pursuing diplomacy to bring the conflict to an end “as soon as possible”. Qatar and Pakistan have been involved in efforts to restart negotiations between Washington and Tehran after their earlier memorandum of understanding expired.On the nuclear issue, Rezaei said Iran had not decided to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, although he warned that further sanctions or a referral of its nuclear file to the UN Security Council “may push Tehran into withdrawing”.He also said Tehran remained open to an agreement with Oman over the Strait of Hormuz, saying the two sides had come within “a short step” of reaching a deal before it was shelved.The comments come as Washington weighs its next move in the conflict. Trump told Axios this week that he was facing a “big decision” over whether to resume major military action against Iran.“Do I want to go in and annihilate them [the Iranian regime] or do I not?” Trump said, adding: “Anything could happen with me.”Catch the latest World News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.