Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

ABVP winning candidates Yash Dabas, Riya and Lakshya Singh soon after the win during the DUSU election results | Photo Credit: Sushil Kumar Verma

The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Saturday (September 19, 2026) bagged three Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) central panel posts, while an Independent candidate, earlier associated with National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), won the vice-presidential post.

Like last year, ABVP won the posts of president, secretary and joint secretary. However, this year saw a neck-and-neck battle with NSUI trailing in two posts. ABVP’s total winning margin came down from 23,873 last year to 9,671 this year. The voter turnout increased from 39.5% last year to 40.46% this year.

This year’s student elections took place against the backdrop of Jantar Mantar protests in the city, which saw many Delhi University students participating in it. The polls also happened in the wake of the paying guest building collapse in Satya Niketan area, which has led to student protests for better accommodation facilities.

ABVP’s Yash Dabbas won the president’s post upon receiving 24,576 votes while NSUI’s Vijay Shankar Meena came in second with 22,523 votes.

The vice-president’s post was bagged by Deepanshu Shokeen, an Independent candidate. With 30,615 votes, he won with the highest number of votes, and the widest margin of the four winners. Ishu Maurya from ABVP trailed him with 16,901 votes.

ABVP’s Riya Chhawdi was elected DUSU secretary with 21,650 votes, beating NSUI’s Namrata Chaudhary who finished with 14,869 votes. For the joint secretary post, Lakshay Raj Singh from ABVP won with a slim margin of 837 votes. Vishesh Yadav from Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha (SCS) came in second, while NSUI came in third.

President-elect Mr. Dabas said: “Delhi University’s Gen-Z has given a clear message that it believes in social harmony and nationalism. I will work to transform this trust into responsibility and ensure that the voice of every student is represented strongly through the students’ union.”

The organisation will focus on student safety, better facilities, equal opportunities and a positive academic environment, said Ms. Chhawdi, the Secretary-elect. “We will work to ensure that the concerns of students, particularly women students, receive due attention,” she added.

BJP national president Nitin Nabin on Saturday extended his wishes to the ABVP’s victory in DUSU elections. “Congratulations to all my young friends at Delhi University on ABVP’s historic victory in the DUSU elections! This victory reflects the youth’s continued faith in positive and constructive student politics, rooted in the spirit of Nation First, and their strong resolve to contribute to the vision of a ‘Viksit Bharat’,” he said.

Last year, the presidential candidate from ABVP had won with a margin of 16,196 votes whereas this year it came down to 2,053. Similarly, the joint secretary post was secured by ABVP last year with a margin of 4,445 votes, as opposed to 837 votes this year. The margin for secretary’s post went up this year to 6,781 from 3,234 last year.

Aam Aadmi Party’s student body Association of Students for Alternative Politics fielded a visually-impaired candidate for the first time in DUSU elections for the post of secretary. The candidate, Pankaj Kumar Dhingra, received 7,639 votes.

While the joint Left panel with All India Students’ Association (AISA) and Students’ Federation of India (SFI) had hoped to challenge the ABVP-NSUI binary, but their performance was similar to previous years.

While some students pointed out that the Left organisations were active during Jantar Mantar, this did not drastically change their vote share from previous years. Presidential candidate Ananya Raturi got 5,377 votes, coming in third. They came in third in the secretary’s election too, garnering 8,734 votes.

Like last year, many students also opted for the NOTA button. As many as 4,310 students pressed NOTA for president, 4,359 for vice-president, 7,884 for secretary and 7,389 for joint secretary.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.