CJP co-convenor Saurav Das, reacting to the DUSU election results, said the outcome showed that a majority of students were against the present regime but remained divided, which he argued ultimately benefited the regime.

Das said those who secured positions in the elections should remember that they were not “kings or queens”, as the majority of students had not voted for them.

"A majority of students are against the present regime, but fractured, and hence it benefits the regime. But this is a silver lining. Those bagging positions must remember they are not kings or queens. The majority DID NOT vote for them," he wrote on X.

Das also criticised the Congress and its “bureaucratic wings”, saying they should focus on putting their organisational affairs in order instead of concentrating on “hounding the CJP”.

He said efforts to sort out these issues had continued for 12 years and claimed that people were losing patience. Das cited the rebel NSUI candidate who won the vice-president’s post with a “HUGE margin” after being denied the NSUI ticket.

Das also raised concerns about sections of the Left unity, saying some, though not all, were too focused on “ideological purity and exclusivity”.

Also read | ABVP sweeps, NSUI falters, Independent grabs key seat: Takeaways from Delhi University polls

He said such groups needed to recognise that people were not seeking their validation.

“If this is the opposition “unity”, then I’m afraid they will continue to remain in Opposition,” Das said.

“Reducing the political mood of an entire generation of hundreds of millions of young Indians facing joblessness, a broken education system, dilapidated schools, inflation and mass despair to the result of ONE student-union election, completely run on money and muscle power, is not great analysis, ” Das further mentioned.

Das said it had been a “curse for this nation” that a government considered elections the only barometer, particularly when, according to him, the results showed that fractured opposition votes were the reason for its power.

“If this is the opposition “unity”, then I’m afraid they will continue to remain in Opposition,” Das said.

Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) swept the students' union election of the Delhi University on Saturday, with Yash Dabas being elected as the President of the Delhi University Students' Union (DUSU). Independent candidate Deepanshu Shokeen won the Vice President post as counting of votes for the student body elections concluded on Saturday.

Also read | From international tennis tournaments to new DUSU president: Who is ABVP's Yash Dabas?

In the presidential contest, ABVP’s Dabas polled 24,576 votes, defeating NSUI’s Vijai Shankar Meena by a margin of 2,053 votes. Shokeen won the vice-president’s post with 30,615 votes. He had contested as an independent after being denied an NSUI ticket. Track latest developments on DUSU polls

Following the ABVP's big win, Dabas described it as a 'victory for the students, harmony, Sangh, and for patriots.'

The win for the RSS-affiliated ABVP comes as a setback for Congress and its student wing – the NSUI – particularly after Gandhi's youth outreach campaign ‘Chhatro ki goonj’ over examination irregularities.

The campaign seems to have failed to have an impact on the student body polls in Delhi University. NSUI, which dominated the DUSU for a long time, now stares at a big loss.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest development