Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) candidate Yash Dabas was elected the Delhi University Students' Union (DUSU) president on Saturday.

Dabas, who polled 24,576 votes and defeated NSUI's Vijai Shankar Meena by 2,053 votes, is an international-level tennis player and has represented Delhi University at the All-India University Games and the Khelo India University Games.

He hails from Delhi's Kanjhawala area and completed his graduation from Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College. Dabas is currently pursuing a Master of Arts (MA) degree in Buddhist Studies at DU.

Also Read | Who is Deepanshu Shokeen? Independent candidate wins DUSU Vice President contest

The ABVP won three of the four central panel posts in the DUSU polls. Among them were Dabas, Riya Chhawdi, who won the secretary post and Lakshya Raj Singh, who was elected joint secretary. Independent candidate Deepanshu Shokeen secured the vice-president’s post.

Dabas has said that he has participated in International Tennis Federation competitions in Spain, Australia and Serbia. “An accomplished tennis player, Yash has represented at national and international levels, with ITF experience in Spain, Australia and Serbia,” ABVP said in a statement on its official X handle.

He was also selected for CBSE Nationals, SGFI Nationals, Khelo India and the All India University Games 2023, and represented DU at the North India University Games. Dabas also studied law at the Campus Law Centre (CLC), Faculty of Law, University of Delhi.

Dabas has been associated with the ABVP since 2021, and is serving as the Students for Seva co-convenor for the RSS-affiliated organisation. According to ABVP, he held key organisational responsibilities at SGTB Khalsa and ABVP, Delhi, and contributed to major organisational programmes and events.

Also Read | DUSU elections over the years: From a 50-day strike to court battles over violence

Following his victory, Dabas said his first task would be a safety audit of all college hostels and PGs, PTI news agency reported. “My priority will be to fight for students' rights and demand justice for those who lost their lives in the Satya Niketan incident. The hardships I faced while campaigning on foot reminded me of the difficulties faced by nearly 1.5 lakh students of Delhi University, and I will work to address their concerns and fight for their rights,” he said.

Dabas said his victory belongs to “social harmony, patriotism and unity.” The newly elected DUSU president had, in his campaign, highlighted student safety and expansion of hostel facilities among his key priorities. “Safe and affordable accommodation is an important part of ensuring a secure and supportive environment for students,” he had said in a statement earlier.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More