Review: India’s Oscar pick ‘Gondhal’ is a rural lust story about macho men and wily women

At least 82% of voters deleted during Bengal SIR have appealed against removal, EC data shows

Congress candidate for Nandigram bye-poll arrested hours after Mamata extends support

Trump signs bill allowing 100% tariffs on India, other countries for buying Russian oil

Why India resisted the Caribbean diaspora’s attempts to return home

Mumbai Police pressured 2 venues into cancelling Umar Khalid film screening, allege organisers

‘I’m not Mr Political’: Ed Sheeran’s stance has larger implications, explains an ethicist

How dreaded dacoit Phoolan Devi became an irresistible legend

Trinamool symbol order: EC gave repeated extensions to rebel faction, then said ‘time not adequate’

United States President Donald Trump on Friday gave his assent to a legislation that allows him to impose tariffs of up to 100% on India and other countries that purchase Russian oil and gas.

The signing of the bill into law does not automatically trigger the tariffs.

The law states that the tariffs could apply to the five countries that imported the largest volumes of Russian crude oil or natural gas in the 12 months before the law takes effect, if they knowingly continue buying Russian crude oil 30 days after the law is enacted.

Washington has for long claimed that the purchase of Russian energy has been fuelling Moscow’s war on Ukraine that began in February 2022.

The bill was passed by the House of Representatives on Wednesday. The Senate had cleared it on August 7. The law is named after late Republican legislator Lindsey Graham, who had spearheaded it before he died in July.

The tariffs could also target any of the five countries identified as helping Russia evade oil-related sanctions.

However, countries that have significantly reduced their imports of Russian natural gas, or whose Russian gas imports account for less than 15% of Russia’s gas exports, would be exempt.

After the House passed the bill, India’s Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday that New Delhi is committed to ensuring energy security for its people. “It will continue to do so through diversified sourcing and on the basis of evolving market dynamics,” it said.

The external affairs ministry also said that during discussions with US interlocutors, the potential implications of the matter on the bilateral relationship and the international energy market “have been very clearly articulated by the Indian side”.

“The Indian side has also made clear its determination to take all necessary measures to protect its trade and economic interests,” the ministry said. “Government will work closely with Indian trade and industry bodies to deal with the implications of these developments.”

The legislation comes as India has increased its purchases of Russian oil this year, while New Delhi and Washington negotiate a preliminary trade deal. India’s import of Russian oil rose to an 11-month high in April, following the US and Israel’s war on Iran.

Before this, India had reduced its purchases of Russian oil, which fell to a 38-month low in December.

Over the past year, there have been diplomatic tensions between Washington and New Delhi over India’s continued purchases of Russian crude.

The Trump administration had in August 2025 imposed a 25% punitive levy on India for buying oil from Russia amid the Ukraine war. This had taken the combined US tariff rate to 50%.

In January, US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent claimed that India had stopped buying Russian oil after Trump imposed the punitive tariff.

In February, after New Delhi and Washington agreed to an interim trade deal, Trump removed the additional 25% punitive levy linked to the purchase of Russian oil.

The US Treasury had later paused global sanctions on Russian oil shipments that were already in transit before March 11, amid supply disruptions caused by war in West Asia.