The ⁠geographic coordinates for a shipping ⁠route ⁠through the ​strait of Hormuz ⁠have been agreed by Iran and ⁠Oman, and ​a ‌joint announcement ‌is being ‌finalised, provided no third parties interfere, Iran’s foreign ministry spokesperson Esmaeil Baghaei ‌said on Wednesday.

Baghaei added ​that any such agreement between Iran and ⁠Oman would not, ​by itself, ​guarantee security ​in the ​strategic waterway.

Iran and Oman have agreed a route for ships transiting the strait of Hormuz and are finalising the draft deal for jointly managing the waterway, Tehran’s foreign ministry said Wednesday. But, spokesperson Esmaeil Baghei stressed that any reopening of the strait would depend on the United States fulfilling what Tehran sees as its commitment to end its own naval blockade of Iran’s ports. A joint statement will be issued from Iran and Oman “if certain parties do not obstruct this process” , Baghei said, apparently referring to the US. Two regional officials briefed on the negotiations told the AP that the potential deal was a temporary solution to the dispute over the strait, and will pave the way for the US and Iran to resume negotiations on Tehran’s nuclear program.

Israel launched attacks in southern Lebanon after accusing Hezbollah of violating the ceasefire, despite ongoing US-mediated peace talks between Israel and Lebanon in Rome. At least one person was killed and 11 others injured in Israeli strikes on the southern town of Tibnin. The strikes came after the IDF issued a warning for people in the southern village of Mansouri to flee their homes – the first time in more than a month that the military had issued such an order ahead of an imminent strike. It comes as the United Nations said more than 800,000 people displaced by war have begun returning to their homes in Lebanon.

Oil prices rose after Yemen’s ⁠Iran-aligned Houthi ​rebels said they targeted a Saudi oil tanker in the Red Sea as part of their naval blockade of Saudi Arabia. Brent crude futures were up 81 cents, or 1.02%, at $80.17 a barrel by 12pm GMT. ⁠US West Texas Intermediate futures gained 34 cents, or 0.45%, to $76.11. The Houthis said they had ​launched a missile attack on a Saudi ‌oil tanker off the coast ‌of Yanbu, a key port for Saudi crude oil exports. This is the eighth ship they have attacked since 22 July, when they announced that they were imposing a naval blockade on Saudi Arabia.

Iran’s president Masoud Pezeshkian said in an interview aired by state TV on Wednesday that interaction with the country’s Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei is currently “very difficult”.

Mojtaba has not made any public appearances since he became supreme leader, replacing his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in one of the first strikes launched against Iran by the US and Israel.

More on the Houthi attacks. The group “successfully targeted the Saudi oil tanker Wafa in the northern Red Sea, off the coast of Yanbu, with a number of ballistic missiles,” spokesman Yahya Saree said in a video statement.

In a later statement, Saree said the rebels targeted the “Saudi oil tanker Daisy in the Gulf of Aden with a ballistic missile”, referring to the waterway that connects to the Red Sea.

The Houthis declared they will escalate attacks in the northern Red Sea because Saudi Arabia is diverting its oil tankers there from the south in response to their blockade.

Nine Saudi oil tankers have been targeted since the start of the blockade last month, according to figures given by a Houthi military spokesman.

Yemen’s Iran-aligned Houthis said they targeted a Saudi Arabian oil vessel in the Gulf of Aden, the group’s military spokesperson said in a statement, Reuters reported.

The Houthis said they also launched a missile attack on a Saudi oil tanker off the coast of the kingdom’s Red Sea port city of Yanbu.

There was no confirmation from Saudi Arabia on either incident.

The Houthis’ military spokesperson, Yahya Saree, did not say when the attacks took place.

On Tuesday, the Houthis warned shipping companies that their tankers risk being attacked if they use Saudi Arabian ports.

The Houthis imposed a naval blockade on Saudi Arabia in the Red Sea last month in response to what they described as a Saudi siege on Yemen, an allegation Riyadh has denied.

US Central Command said its forces have redirected 48 commercial vessels, disabled two and boarded two as part of its Iran blockade.

Vessels in the strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam, Oman, on 3 August.

According to the Associated Press, Iranian and Omani negotiators have finalised the draft deal to reopen the strait of Hormuz and are awaiting final approval from Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei.

A reminder that Khamenei is believed to have been injured in the war’s opening strikes on 28 February and has not been seen in public since then.

Two regional officials briefed on the negotiations portrayed the potential deal to the AP as a temporary solution to the dispute ov