The former public health official’s victory in Michigan US Senate primary race comes after progressive wins in New York and Colorado

It’s worth noting that Abdul El-Sayed’s victory in Michigan was the latest win for progressives across the country, many of whom challenged establishment-backed Democrats in key races across the country.

Last month, Democratic socialist Melat Kiros unseated the long-serving US representative Diana DeGette in Colorado’s primary elections.

And in New York, Brad Lander, Claire Valdez and Darializa Avila Chevalier, who were all backed by mayor Zohran Mamdani, also won races in the June congressional primaries. Lander won his race comfortably, defeating the two-term Democratic representative Dan Goldman. Valdez won against Antonio Reynoso – the handpicked successor of Nydia Velázquez. And Chevalier toppled Representative Adriano Espaillat, the powerful five-term incumbent who chairs the congressional Hispanic caucus.

Despite progressive nominee Cori Bush’s loss in Missouri against pro-Israel incumbent Wesley Bell on Tuesday, Michigan insurgents in two key House races also claimed wins.

Moments after Nevada’s Republican governor, Joe Lombardo, stepped off stage at the midterm campaign rally hosted by Donald Trump on Wednesday, the president praised an election conspiracy theorist who is running to oversee Nevada’s elections as its secretary of state, Jim Marchant.

The transition was awkward because Marchant won the Republican nomination for the office in June, narrowly defeating a candidate endorsed by Lombardo who is not an election-denier.

“A very special man, I wish you’d get him in office, because he’s incredible, I’ve known him so long and he’s got to get in, he just has to,” Trump said. “He had a big victory with spending very little money because everyone respects him, Jim Marchant, he’s a candidate for secretary of state.”

Marchant, who has spread baseless conspiracy theories about election fraud in Nevada for years, and previously said he would not have certified Joe Biden’s 2020 victory in the state, is attempting to unseat the Democratic incumbent, Cisco Aguilar, in a rematch of the 2022 election the Democrat won by just 23,000 votes.

Jon Ralston, the chief executive of the non-profit Nevada Independent, noted with amazement Trump’s endorsement of “an unhinged conspiracy theorist who said he didn’t even trust the results of his own primary he won”.

In a speech laced with anti-Muslim animus, Donald Trump just accused Abdul El-Sayed, the Democratic nominee for the US Senate from Michigan, who is Muslim, of being motivated by deep-seated antisemitism.

El-Sayed, who narrowly won the Democratic primary in Michigan despite $30m in negative ads paid for by groups linked to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (Aipac), has campaigned with Jewish supporters, but strongly condemned Israel’s killing and mistreatment of Palestinians.

According to Trump, El-Sayed is “a hater of Jews and a hater of Israel”.

“Just say this guy hates Jews. Somebody said, ‘Oh, that’s a little strong.’ No, he hates Jews and he hates Israel,” Trump said. “He’s a man of hate.”

The president then mockingly pronounced El-Sayed’s name, clearly stressing its Arabic origins, eliciting boos from his supporters in Nevada, just as his earlier reference to “Barack Hussein Obama” had. At another point in the speech, Trump also made a sarcastic reference to “the lovely Islamic Republic of Iran”.

Earlier on Wednesday, as other Republicans released frankly racist statements attempting to cast El-Sayed as a Muslim extremist, El-Sayed addressed Jewish Americans in comments carried live by Fox News.

“To my Jewish American sisters and brothers, one of the most indelible memories of this campaign will have been the opportunity to break bread with you at seder,” El-Sayed said, “and listening to sisters and brothers who said, ‘I want to join this movement because Aipac doesn’t speak for me; because I understand that self-determination for one people does not require the quenching of self-determination for another people; that unless all of us are free, none of us are free,’ I want to tell you the great gift that you’ve given me.”

“I want you to know,” he continued, “that my commitment to your safety, my commitment to Jewish safety, is the same commitment that I have to the safety of my own daughters.”

Apparently referring to these comments, which were carried live on the president’s favorite network, Trump said: “Now he’s going around saying, ‘No, I love everybody … ’ He doesn’t love everybody. Put him in office, you’re going to find out what he loves. He doesn’t love Israel. He doesn’t love Jewish people. He hates them. He hates them with a passion that burns in his heart and is not a fricking thing he can do about it. There’s not a thing he can do about it ’cause he hates them.”

The idea that many non-Jews hold a deep-seated, unreasoning, anti-Jewish animus is a frequent claim made by Israeli politi