Investigators treating incident as part of ‘professional hybrid threat scenario’, says Alexander Dobrindt

Germany’s interior minister has warned that the discovery of a drone carrying explosives at Leipzig airport marks “a new level of danger” for the country, as authorities examine whether the thwarted attack could have been planned by a foreign power.

The discovery of a small drone carrying explosives at Leipzig airport, a leading shipping and military hub, set off alarm and caused flight diversions on Wednesday morning. German police deployed a bomb disposal robot to defuse and destroy the explosive device.

In public remarks on Wednesday evening, the interior minister, Alexander Dobrindt, said the incident did not appear to be the work of amateurs, and that investigators were treating it as part of a “professional hybrid threat scenario”.

“We are dealing here with a competition that may also include foreign powers – this will be part of the investigations – who quite obviously want to contribute to considerable uncertainty in Germany,” Dobrindt said.

A DHL cargo plane that had been forced to abort its landing at the airport then collided with an unknown object in mid-air as it was climbing away from the airport. It later landed safely elsewhere.

Dobrindt and other German officials did not explicitly mention Russia as a potential suspect in their remarks. But the airport’s status as a Nato and German military logistics hub, as well as the base for Ukraine’s Antonov Airlines in Europe, has directed suspicion toward Russia, which has previously been accused of carrying out sabotage attacks in Europe.

Security experts said the incident could amount to a serious escalation in tensions with Russia if it was determined the Kremlin played a role.

Investigators said “a drone carrying an unknown explosive device was spotted by an airport employee in the security area of the cargo operations zone near the south runway” of Leipzig airport, a facility classified as “critical infrastructure”.

“A suspected second unidentified flying object collided with a cargo aircraft after it had taken off again following the previous closure of the runway. Minor damage was detected on the aircraft after it landed in Hanover,” the investigators said.

A Nato official said: “We are aware of the incident, which the German authorities continue to investigate.”

The drone, a quadcopter that was fitted with an explosive device, was found near a Ukrainian Antonov cargo plane, according to media reports.

Some of the Ukrainian aircraft are emblazoned with patriotic slogans including “Be Brave Like Kherson” and “Be Brave Like Bucha”, the site of a civilian massacre early in the full-scale Russian invasion.

The tabloid Bild speculated that the explosive could have been fabricated ⁠from fertiliser and petrol, while a team from the public broadcasters NDR and WDR, as well as the Süddeutsche newspaper, said the device had contained pentaerythritol tetranitrate, or PETN – a primary ingredient in semtex that belongs to the same chemical family as nitroglycerin.

Ukraine’s ambassador to Germany, Oleksii Makeiev, blamed Moscow. “Who else could it be but Russia?” he told the commercial broadcaster Welt TV. Moscow has not commented so far.

Konstantin von Notz, the opposition Green party’s spokesperson on intelligence oversight, called for an investigation to be conducted with the utmost urgency and also hinted at possible Russian involvement.

“Should it transpire that a state is behind this action, this would constitute not merely terrorism but state terrorism directed against the federal republic of Germany and its citizens,” he told Der Spiegel.

Marc Henrichmann, the CDU chair of the German parliament’s intelligence oversight committee, said the latest incident looked like “an attempt to target a company of importance for Ukraine”.

If the details are confirmed, it “would represent a new level of escalation in these sorts of attacks”, he told the Rheinische Post newspaper.

Several aircraft, including a passenger plane from Mallorca, were diverted because of the incident. Operations in the northern part of the airport resumed two hours later.

The southern runway, where the drone was found, remained closed. Police deployed a bomb disposal robot to examine the object.

Police and prosecutors said: “There is no danger to the lives or safety of passengers or airport staff. Passenger air traffic is unaffected.”

Germany and other European countries have had a series of suspicious unauthorised drone overflights at airports, military facilities, ports and logistics companies. They have accused Russian agents of being behind some of the flights, which Moscow has denied.

Germany is the biggest single national supplier of military aid to Ukraine and has accused Russia of orchestrating a campaign of sabotage, espionage and disinformation against it, which the Kremlin has denied.

Last year, a Chinese national was convicted for passing on inform