German state prosecutors including units working on extremism and terrorism prevention take over investigation into Leipzig incident

German state prosecutors including units working on extremism and terrorism prevention have taken over an investigation into a drone carrying explosives that was found at Leipzig airport in vicinity of Ukrainian cargo planes (14:02).

According to local media, the drone was packed with highly explosive substances, but failed to ignite properly after a detonated broke off the rest of the machine (16:11).

German interior minister will chair an emergency meeting this evening, bringing together federal and state authorities looking into the incident (15:22, 15:37, 17:04).

A press briefing with further updates is expected around 7.30pm local time (6.30pm UK).

The incident sparked calls for investigation into possible links with Russia given its history of attempted sabotage in Europe, denied by Moscow (16:35, 17:22).

Leipzig serves as a maintenance base for six Ukrainian Antonov cargo planes (16:58) and a large hub for military help for Ukraine (11:02).

In a separate incident, a DHL transport plane collided with another unidentified object near the same airport, with minor damage to the machine.

At least 17 people were killed and more than 40 injured after another horrific night of Russian attacks on Kyiv, as Ukraine repeated its calls to help protect Ukrainian skies from ballistic missiles (9:46, 17:26).

Austria and Slovakia set new all-time high temperature records as large parts of central and eastern Europe are gripped by another extreme heatwave (17:18).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

As reported earlier (9:46), at least 17 people were killed and more than 40 injured in another round of deadly Russian strikes on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy has pleaded for more air defence weapons, saying ballistic missile interceptors “could have saved the lives of those killed today”.

For months, Ukraine has been warning about shortages after Donald Trump backtracked on his promise to let Ukraine manufacture missiles locally.

And in response to the attack, the EU’s Ursula von der Leyen said “Russia must pay” (10:36) – but will it?

Lucy Hough talks to the Guardian’s Russia affairs correspondent, Pjotr Sauer.

Ukraine’s ambassador to Germany, Oleksii Makeiev, suggested Russia was behind the drone incident at Leipzig airport overnight, DPA International reported.

“I hope the German authorities establish the facts. But who else could it have been besides Russia?” he told broadcaster Welt TV.

In other news, Slovakia has recorded a provisional all-time high temperature record of 41.4C in the village of Kamenica nad Hronom.

Similarly, Austria also set an all-time record for the second day running, with 41.2C reported in the east of the country, GeoSphere Austria said in a statement quoted by AFP.

Meanwhile, ⁠Slovenia’s Krsko ⁠nuclear ⁠plant will reduce ​output to ⁠80% due to ⁠low ​water ‌levels ‌and ‌high temperatures in the Sava River and ‌will proceed with ​further cuts if needed, ⁠it ​said in ​a ​statement quoted by Reuters.

In a separate statement, Saxony state justice minister Constanze Geiert said “the safety of flight operations and the investigation of this incident are of paramount importance.”

“Leipzig Airport is part of our critical infrastructure. Attacks on this infrastructure must be prosecuted with the full force and severity of the law enforcement authorities,” she said.

Saxony state interior minister Armin Schuster said the events at Leipzig airport constituted “a very serious security incident,” with state and federal authorities working together to establish the facts.

He said he was in constant contact with the federal interior minister, Alexander Dobrindt, who will chair this evening’s emergency meeting on the incident.

There is some useful context from the German news agency DPA on why the Ukrainian Antonov cargo planes are positioned in Leipzig.

“Leipzig/Halle Airport has served as a maintenance base for Ukrainian cargo carrier Antonov since 2006.

Following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the Antonov relocated its fleet to the eastern German airport, where six aircraft are now based. A new maintenance hangar is due to open in 2027.”

Konstantin von Notz, the opposition Green party’s spokesperson on intelligence oversight, called for an investigation to be conducted with the utmost urgency and hinted at possible Russian involvement.

“Should it transpire that a state is behind this action, this would constitute not merely terrorism but state terrorism directed against the federal republic of Germany and its citizens,” he told Der Spiegel.

German media NDR, WDR and Süddeutsche Zeitung carried a report saying that the drone found at Leipzig airport was packed with highly explosive substances, wit