Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Cockroach Janta Party leaders Saurav Das, Ashutosh Ranka and Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal. File. | Photo Credit: R.V. Moorthy

Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) chief spokesperson Saurav Das on Wednesday (August 5, 2026) alleged that certain YouTubers and media persons had entered his residence and filmed inside without consent, calling it “a serious invasion of privacy” and a security threat to him and his family. He is in Maharashtra to attend a two-day meeting of Citizens for Justice and Peace.

In a post on X, Mr. Das claimed that around 15 to 20 people had gathered outside his residence on Wednesday (August 5) morning, with some camping there since the previous night.

“It’s not just an invasion of my privacy but also a grave security threat to me and my family,” Mr. Das wrote. He said that if “anti-social elements” attacked him at his residence because of the videos, the YouTubers and those allegedly coordinating them would be directly responsible.

An officer from the South district police told The Hindu that security personnel had been deployed outside Mr. Das’s residence after he raised the issue on X.

The officer said that since Mr. Das was not in Delhi, he had authorised someone to submit a draft complaint at the Greater Kailash police station on his behalf. “The complaint would be formally lodged, following which an investigation would be carried out,” the officer added.

Mr. Das’s post drew political reactions, with Aam Aadmi Party national convener and former Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that “this is the real face of Modi”.

Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien said the matter had been raised by his party in the Rajya Sabha onWednesday (August 5) afternoon.

Delhi / Cockroach Janta Party / Right to Privacy / crime / police

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.