Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

Canada has announced retaliatory tariffs against the U.S., saying that it will match U.S. tariffs "dollar for dollar." Canadian Finance Minister François-Philippe Champagne said the country would apply tariffs of 15%, 25% and 50% on a variety of U.S. exports starting Sept. 8. The countertariffs will target steel, dairy, appliances, agricultural equipment, pulp and paper and electronics, affecting nearly $20 billion worth of annual imports from the U.S.

Tractor trailers cross the Peace Bridge at the Canada-United States border in Fort Erie, Ontario, Canada, on Aug. 20. Cole Burston/Bloomberg via Getty Images hide caption

In what may be the largest revocation effort in U.S. history, the Trump administration is planning to cancel 200,000 immigration visas nationwide, according to an administration source familiar with the policy who was not authorized to speak on the record. State Department spokesperson Tommy Pigott says the agency is identifying and revoking visas held by immigrants who entered the U.S. as short-term visitors for tourism or business but then filed for asylum. This revocation process is expected to occur on a rolling basis, not all at once, the administration source said.

The legendary country singer Dolly Parton has died at the age of 80. Her death was confirmed in a video posted on social media by her nephew Bryan Seaver, as well as her representatives. Over the course of her musical career, she earned dozens of top-10 country hits and delivered catchy songs like "9 to 5" and "Jolene." The icon even has a theme park named after her likeness: Dollywood. After her post-touring years, she picked up several ventures, including new theater productions, clothing lines and baking mixes. Parton changed many people's lives with her charitable projects, including the Imagination Library, a program that sends children a book a month from birth until age 5. Trump announced that flags would be lowered to half-staff for the next week to honor Parton's death.

The Trump administration has claimed to have found more than 250,000 noncitizens on voter rolls for Nevada and three other states. But the Department of Homeland Security's communication with those states since then indicates the numbers may have been inflated. In a meeting with Nevada officials, DHS acknowledged that an initial figure of around 16,000 potential noncitizens on the state's voter list represented a preliminary maximum estimate rather than confirmed entries. A day later, the agency provided a list of 185 voter ID numbers it was confident were nonvoters and said that more than 14,000 Nevada voters still require additional review.

A woman walks in the shade in downtown Houston, Texas, on July 30, 2026, during a regional heat wave. Ronaldo Schemidt/AFP via Getty Images hide caption

Extreme heat is affecting millions of Americans this week as record-breaking temperatures spread across the South-Central U.S. and into the Southwest. NPR's senior climate editor, Sadie Babits, often helps the newsroom better understand the role of climate change when extreme weather hits. Now she is sharing that guidance with readers. Here is some context on climate change's role in extreme heat:

Do you have any questions about climate change? If so, let NPR know by filling out this form. Your questions could help shape future reporting.

Cody and Kaleigh Brendle sit together at their home. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption

When the Justice Department first said, back in June, that it would no longer require states to provide community-based care for people with disabilities, it shook the disability rights community. Decades earlier, they had fought against a history of segregation in institutions and for a system of Medicaid-funded programs that serve disabled adults in their own homes and communities. Now, the Trump administration seems to be reversing course by challenging a legal principle known as the "integration mandate."

It made me think about how an entire generation of young people had only known an America in which being integrated into their communities was standard procedure. I wondered how this action could change their lives.

Not long after the DOJ memo dropped, a message from Kaleigh Brendle landed in my colleague Hansi Lo Wang's inbox. He passed it to the education team, and my eyes widened. Kaleigh, who's 23, started a disability rights organization to push back against the Trump administration's efforts to challenge the integration mandate. Kaleigh is blind and has other disabilities, so this work was personal for her.

As I chatted with Kaleigh on the phone, I could hear the voice of an impassioned advocate. Then, at one point, her voice softened, and suddenly I was listening to a sister. Kaleigh mentioned her 27-year-old brother Cody, who is blind and