Ben Carroll announces he will ‘abolish the rail improvement charge’. Follow today’s news live

The Victorian premier, Ben Carroll, has announced he will scrap a levy on public transport users the government secretly introduced to help pay for the Suburban Rail Loop.

The report into the first stage of the SRL – from Cheltenham to Box Hill – revealed the government added a 1% levy on public transport fares on top of existing adjustments in line with inflation on 1 January 2025 but did not inform Victorians.

The auditor general said 60% of the revenue earned was meant go to SRL East but the levy was not been named as one of the government’s value capture methods for the project.

double quotation markI am a premier who levels with Victorians, and I’m going to level with Victorians today. I will abolish the rail improvement charge. There’ll be a proper cabinet process to come, but it’s my intention and the treasurer’s intention to abolish that charge. I’m a premier taking the state in a new direction. Victorians do deserve better public transport. They also deserve to know what their money is buying.

double quotation markThe way this charge was created and implemented, there was a lack of transparency. That is why today I’m announcing I will abolish it.

Albanese confirms 34 Australians missing in Nepal, saying ‘information is difficult’ to get

Anthony Albanese just confirmed 34 Australians are missing in Nepal, echoing similar numbers from local authorities.

double quotation markPeople would have seen some of the footage, which is a truly horrific event. At this point, there are 34 Australians who are missing.

Nepal, you know, is a developing country, it doesn’t have the resources that an event like that would have in Australia.

The Victorian premier, Ben Carroll, has announced he will scrap a levy on public transport users the government secretly introduced to help pay for the Suburban Rail Loop.

The report into the first stage of the SRL – from Cheltenham to Box Hill – revealed the government added a 1% levy on public transport fares on top of existing adjustments in line with inflation on 1 January 2025 but did not inform Victorians.

The auditor general said 60% of the revenue earned was meant go to SRL East but the levy was not been named as one of the government’s value capture methods for the project.

double quotation markI am a premier who levels with Victorians, and I’m going to level with Victorians today. I will abolish the rail improvement charge. There’ll be a proper cabinet process to come, but it’s my intention and the treasurer’s intention to abolish that charge. I’m a premier taking the state in a new direction. Victorians do deserve better public transport. They also deserve to know what their money is buying.

double quotation markThe way this charge was created and implemented, there was a lack of transparency. That is why today I’m announcing I will abolish it.

The former Treasury secretary Ken Henry says the GST deal benefiting Western Australia is “stupid” and undermines the “integrity of the system of horizontal fiscal equalisation”.

Henry spoke to RN Breakfast this morning amid an ongoing stoush after the Productivity Commission said in an interim report the Morrison-era GST deal was a mistake that should be reversed. Western Australia has responded with fury, and Anthony Albanese said this week there would be no changes to the agreement while he is in power.

Henry, however, said he agreed the GST carve-out was hurting the nation, telling RN:

double quotation markIf a state, the wealthiest state in the nation, can come to Canberra with a begging bowl and get the rest of the country to put money into that begging bowl being held by the wealthiest people in the country, if that’s how this system is going to work, then this system is going to fail. And one day this system is going to break.

Without a high-integrity system of fiscal equalisation, the Australian federation is going to face some pretty serious challenges.

Home buyers have more power but new listings down as owners hold fire

Australia’s spring property season is shaping up to be unusually sluggish, as sellers retreat from a weak market and unsold homes pile up, AAP reports.

New property listings in the four weeks leading up to August 23 were 8.2% below the five-year average, property analytics firm Cotality data shows.

Advertised stock levels remain elevated overall, suggesting homeowners are holding back from adding to an already crowded market.

Sydney is leading the downturn, where new listings were 14% below the five-year average in the four-week period. Similar pullbacks were recorded in all capitals except Adelaide.

‘Reluctant’ approval for Tasmanian datacentre sets marker for national battle

The day before Anthony Albanese secured agreement with states and territories to develop national datacentre standards, a small council in Tasmania was grappling with the existing regulations in the face of stro