Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

A drone view shows mud covering properties following a flash flood at Trishuli in Nuwakot district, Nepal, on August 26, 2026. | Photo Credit: Reuters

At least 57 pilgrims, as per available information, from Tamil Nadu were among the Indians who were stranded in Nepal, where flash floods left behind a trail of destruction on Wednesday (August 26, 2026).

While a group of 21 have reached out to officials seeking rescue, steps were taken to locate the rest of the party, as of 8.30 p.m. IST.

Tamil Nadu Chief Minister C. Joseph Vijay expressed shock over the devastating flash floods in Nepal, in which several Indians, including people from Tamil Nadu, were missing. He also ordered speedy and coordinated efforts to find and rescue people from the State and provide them with necessary assistance. In a post on X, he said he had ordered officials at Tamil Nadu House in New Delhi to coordinate the rescue operation.

The State government also announced round-the-clock toll-free helpline numbers for family members to coordinate with officials. According to an official release from the Department of Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils, family members could contact the helpline numbers. The helpline number within India is 1800 309 3793. Those calling from abroad can give a missed call to +91 80690 09900 or contact +91 80690 09901. Those who want to reach the control room at the Tamil Nadu House in New Delhi can contact 92895 16712.

The 57 pilgrims went to Nepal on a tour organised by a Kumbakonam-based company in tie-up with a Nepal-based company. They landed in Nepal a few days ago and were heading towards the Tibet border as part of their travel plan when the mishap took place. Divided into three groups, they travelled in three buses to Tibet border, sources said.

Nepal floods: PM Modi speaks to Balendra Shah, offers humanitarian assistance

“Along with them, two others from Maharashtra too joined them. The incident happened around 8 a.m. today. Occupants of one of the vehicles took refuge on top of a hill,” a source coordinating rescue efforts said, adding that it is not immediately known as to what happened to the occupants of the other two vehicles.

While about 21 of them managed to get shelter at a Nepal border police outpost, the status of others was yet to be ascertained, according to an official spokesperson of the travel company. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai district administrations have started collecting the addresses and other details of the tourists from their respective districts and were perusing the condition of tourists with the Central government, official sources said. 11 persons from Chidambaram and Bhuvanagiri in Cuddalore district are among the pilgrims from Tamil Nadu who have been stranded in Nepal.

Founder of Isha Foundation Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Wednesday (August 26, 2026) evening said that of the 21 groups who are part of their sojourn, 495 people have already returned safely, while 743 people were currently in Tibet, 148 people were in Nepal, and 77 people were at the immigration center and three volunteers in Timure, Nepal.

ALSO WATCH Before & after: Satellite images reveal Nepal flood devastation

“All of us, including the volunteers and support teams are deeply anguished and are doing our utmost to assist in the rescue. There has been no official information on the whereabouts of any of the people who were at the immigration office. We are working with the authorities to see if we can get to the location and stand ready to be part of the rescue efforts, regardless of the risk involved,” he said in the post.

T. Sugumar (71) of Mayiladuthurai, whose wife, S. Manimekalai (64), had gone on a tour on Sunday (August 23, 2026) from Chennai to Kailash, said that his wife had communicated on Wednesday (August 26, 2026), saying that she was safe somewhere near the Nepal border. There were 19 others, along with Ms. Manimekalai, who travelled in the same vehicle on Wednesday (August 26, 2026) before the incident was reported.

“The call from my wife came around 11 a.m. to our daughter, saying that she and others were safe, said Mr. Sugumar. Where she was staying could not be known immediately. She could not be contacted thereafter, he further said.

Another traveller from Mayiladuthurai district was Pushpalatha (60) of Kazhukaanimattam. Her relative Ramesh said Ms. Pushpalatha made a WhatsApp call in the morning saying that she was safe. After the incident was reported, we called the official helpline number to be told that Pushpalatha was safe, Mr. Ramesh said.

A couple Rathinakumar (65) and Poonguzhali (61) of Mayiladuthurai had also gone for the Kailash tour on Sunday. “We got a call and a message from my uncle who had accompanied my parents during the tour saying that they were all 