‘Toxic’ review: Blood, lust and something like love in unwieldy, overly long crime saga

‘Manufactured hysteria’: Former NDTV journalist Maya Sharma on why TV news has become ‘unwatchable’

For children: A peepul tree in Lucknow’s Sikandar Bagh recounts the 1857 revolt

The takeover of a Bandra football ground is part of a larger fight for Mumbai’s public spaces

Census: Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge urge PM Modi to cancel current caste questionnaire

Zohran Mamdani says he opposes RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s event in New York

US sanctions four India-based firms for importing petrochemicals from Iran

Kriti Sanon Raksha Bandhan ad withdrawn by firm amid row over outfit

A Supreme Court judge has accused Acting Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court Sanjeev Prakash Sharma of misusing his administrative powers ahead of his retirement next month, Bar and Bench quoted letters sent to Chief Justice of India Surya Kant as saying.

Justice Sandeep Mehta alleged that Sharma manipulated the listing of cases to favour rich litigants and used his position to appoint persons close to him in administrative posts.

Mehta has sought that the acting chief justice be replaced “with immediate effect”, the legal news outlet reported.

Sharma was appointed as a Rajasthan High Court judge in November 2016 and transferred to the Patna High Court in 2022.

After Sharma sought to return to Rajasthan on health grounds, the collegium headed by DY Chandrachud, the chief justice at the time, declined his request in March 2023. Sharma was transferred to the Punjab and Haryana High Court instead.

In May 2025, a fresh collegium recommended his return to Rajasthan.

He later became the acting chief justice of the Rajasthan High Court. Mehta wrote in his letters that Sharma has held the position for “more than 10 months”, Bar and Bench reported.

Mehta has also claimed in his letters that several judges of the Rajasthan High Court had approached him during his visits to the state and expressed concerns about Sharma’s conduct.

He alleged that Sharma had “frequently” threatened fellow judges with “retributive action”, including transfer while “claiming his closeness” with the chief justice of India.

Among the allegations, the Supreme Court judge also highlighted a complaint by an advocate addressed to Justice Vikram Nath and copied to him and 15 others, which alleged that Sharma had used his position as acting chief justice to secure permanent appointments to Lok Adalats in Jaipur and Ajmer for persons close to him. These included a childhood friend and the spouses of two district judges, Bar and Bench reported.

In letters dated August 2, August 10 and August 17, Mehta repeatedly urged Kant to appoint a chief justice from another High Court, warning that the continued failure to act was “wholly against the interest of the institution”, Live Law reported. Mehta was elevated to the Supreme Court from the Rajasthan High Court.