Emergency workers are continuing their search for survivors in southern Japan after yesterday’s powerful earthquake

‘Race against time’: Japan earthquake death toll rises as rescue teams search for missing

Emergency workers are continuing their search for survivors in southern Japan after yesterday’s powerful earthquake left widespread devastation, with buildings collapsed, roads severely damaged and emergency teams digging through rubble.

At least 13 people have been killed and many reported missing after the earthquake struck the Kumamoto area on the southern main island of Kyushu with a magnitude of 7.1, according to the Japan meteorological agency. The US Geological Survey measured it at magnitude 6.8.

The Japanese prime minister, Sanae Takaichi, said rescue workers faced a “race against time” to reach more people still trapped in rubble. “We will go all out to find and rescue as many people as we can,” she said.

Eight people ⁠were pulled from the rubble of a ​partially collapsed Aeon shopping centre near the city of Kumamoto following an apparent explosion that occurred around an hour after the earthquake, according to reports. Aeon said four workers at the shopping centre remained unaccounted for.

“I thought a bomb had gone off,” Takateru Sonoda, 41, who runs a hair salon and cafe near the shopping centre, told the Japanese Jiji Press news agency.

“There were people calling on others to evacuate and sirens were ringing out. Nearby ⁠roads were gridlocked, it was a state of panic.”

Seven people are also still missing at the Nippon Paper Industries factory where a chimney collapsed on to the site. Japan’s Mainichi newspaper reported that four people were rescued from the rubble at the paper mill, including two who were seriously injured.

Nearly 37,000 homes were still without electricity, 9,500 homes were without gas and communication networks were not working in some areas, chief government spokesperson Minoru Kihara told reporters. More than 9,000 people left their homes to stay in more than 500 shelters, Kihara added.

At least 13 people have been killed and many reported missing after the earthquake struck the Kumamoto area on the southern main island of Kyushu with a magnitude of 7.1, according to the Japan meteorological agency. The US Geological Survey measured it at magnitude 6.8.

Emergency workers are continuing their search for survivors in southern Japan after yesterday’s powerful earthquake left widespread devastation, with buildings collapsed, roads severely damaged and emergency teams digging through rubble.

The Kumamoto region of Kyushi island in Japan has experienced another “strong earthquake” this afternoon, according to local media. The news outlet RKK, based in the city of Kumamoto, reported that an earthquake with an estimated magnitude of 5.8 hit the Amakusa and Ashikita regions at about 10.20pm (4.20pm BST), according to the Japan meteorological agency.

Japan’s Mainichi newspaper has reported some remarks from Akio Yoshida, the president of retail company Aeon which operated a shopping centre that partially collapsed after yesterday’s earthquake and a subsequent explosion. Yoshida told a press briefing that three workers at the shopping centre in Kumamuto are still missing. He confirmed three people were killed, all of whom were employees.

Weather officials in Japan have warned of another hot day across wide areas of the country, including in the southern Kumamoto prefecture on the island of Kyushu where the earthquake hit. Temperatures are forecast to reach 35C in Kumamoto, according to the Japan meteorological agency, with highs of 38C in Miyazaki on Kyushu island.

Toyoto and Honda said they will suspend operations in their factories in Kumamoto in southern Japan until Friday. “The ‌situation, including aftershocks ‌and recovery efforts, is changing daily,” Toyota said in a statement. “We will continue to prioritise safety above all else.”

There was a voice coming from the collapsed house, and I could see a hand,” Tomohide Nagata, a volunteer firefighter, told the Kumamoto Nichinichi Shimbun. “One of our senior members crawled in and pulled him out. He was bleeding from the head, but I’m so glad he survived.”

Nagata had heard a noise coming from one completely flattened home in the rural town of Hikawa, close to the epicentre of Tuesday’s 6.8-magnitude earthquake in southern Japan. The town was one of the areas hardest hit, with numerous older houses collapsing. Terrified of the ongoing aftershocks, many residents spent Tuesday night in their cars outside Hikawa’s town hall, where staff distributed food and drinks.

At least 13 people were killed and hundreds injured when the earthquake struck the island of Kyushu. The prime minister, Sanae Takaichi, said on Wednesday: “There are people who are still waiting to be rescued, and it’s a race against time. We will go all out to find and rescue as many people as we can.”

Iwaoka Shigemi, 79, and his wife, Michiyo, 77, 