After Assam and Bihar, Bengal and Maharashtra to stop coercive action against protesters

‘Musafir Cafe’ review: A charming show about love and life-altering choices

In his new book, former CEC SY Quraishi recounts discovering a TRP scam while running Doordarshan

Bengaluru woman booked for poster supporting Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam during youth protest

Booker Prize 2026: A reader’s guide to the 13 novels (including two by past winners) on the longlist

Two days after Bihar promise to withdraw cases, families wait anxiously for protestors’ release

Madhya Pradesh content creator booked for purportedly abusive reel about Dharmendra Pradhan

Arundhati Roy: ‘Does Modi know what was being said about him?’

Muslim man who volunteered at Jantar Mantar protest moves SC alleging harassment by police

The Delhi Police has registered a first information report against X for allegedly objectionable and defamatory posts about Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the social media platform, The Indian Express reported on Wednesday. The posts were made during the youth protests.

A case has been registered at the Special Cell’s Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit under charges of criminal intimidation, public mischief and defamation, the newspaper reported.

The police had also written to X seeking that the “derogatory, malicious and defamatory content” about “constitutional heads” be removed from the platform, ANI reported on Wednesday.

The police had asked the social media platform to provide details of the account from which the content was posted, including the holder’s name, address, contact details and email ID. It also asked for login and logout details along with date and time stamps, the news agency reported.

It further directed the platform to preserve details related to the posts or videos for future investigation and provide a certificate under Section 63(4) of the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam.

The section requires any electronic record submitted as evidence in court to be accompanied by a certificate.

On Monday, The Indian Express reported that notices had been issued to three social media platforms directing them to take down purportedly objectionable content about Modi. The posts were being identified by the police’s social media monitoring team.

The Delhi Police had identified 450 social media accounts that shared alleged deepfake videos and content generated using artificial intelligence during the protests, the newspaper reported.

The content was posted online during the youth protests led by the Cockroach Janta Party political campaign to demand the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union education minister at the time, over the alleged irregularities in the conduct of competitive exams.

On July 20, thousands joined the protest in Delhi two days after the police forcibly took activist Sonam Wangchuk, who had been on a hunger strike for three weeks, to hospital. Their march to Parliament was met with a crackdown by the police. Dozens were injured as the police used lathis, fired tear gas shells and pellet gun against the demonstrators.

The police action turbocharged the agitation, which spread to other parts of the country.

Watch: Arundhati Roy on India’s youth trumping Modi: ‘Bigger than winning an election’