After Assam and Bihar, Bengal and Maharashtra to stop coercive action against protesters

‘Musafir Cafe’ review: A charming show about love and life-altering choices

In his new book, former CEC SY Quraishi recounts discovering a TRP scam while running Doordarshan

Bengaluru woman booked for poster supporting Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam during youth protest

Booker Prize 2026: A reader’s guide to the 13 novels (including two by past winners) on the longlist

Two days after Bihar promise to withdraw cases, families wait anxiously for protestors’ release

Madhya Pradesh content creator booked for purportedly abusive reel about Dharmendra Pradhan

Arundhati Roy: ‘Does Modi know what was being said about him?’

Muslim man who volunteered at Jantar Mantar protest moves SC alleging harassment by police

The Supreme Court on Wednesday accepted the Central Bureau of Investigation’s decision to close the case against former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in an alleged coal allocation scam, Bar and Bench reported.

A bench headed by Chief Justice Surya Kant allowed Singh’s appeal challenging the summons issued to him by a trial court in 2015.

The order came a year-and-a-half after the former prime minister died in December 2024.

On Wednesday, advocate Kapil Sibal told the court that while Singh’s appeal may have technically become infructuous, or no longer relevant, after his death, the trial court’s adverse observations against the former prime minister required judicial interference, Live Law reported. Sibal urged the court to expunge those observations.

The Supreme Court remarked that although Singh’s death meant that the appeal could be disposed of as infructuous, it was important to look into whether the trial court’s decision to summon him was legally valid.

The bench noted that the special judge had rejected the CBI’s closure report on Singh, and taken cognisance of the case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, Live Law reported. The court said that the special judge had failed to apply settled principles about the acceptance of closure reports.

The court said it was satisfied that “there was no reason for the learned judge to turn down the closure reports of the CBI and take cognisance”, Live Law reported.

In August 2014, the Supreme Court had quashed the allocation of 214 coal blocks made by the Union government between 1993 and 2010.

A three-judge bench headed by RM Lodha, the chief justice at the time, had cancelled all but four of the total 218 allocations, calling them “arbitrary, illegal and amounting to unfair distribution of national wealth”. The judgement came in response to a petition filed by the non-governmental organisation Common Cause and others challenging the legality of coal block allocations to private companies from 1993 onwards.