President’s criticism comes after Federal Reserve chair Kevin Warsh announced quarter-percent increase – the first since July 2023

US Federal Reserve raises interest rates for the first time since 2023

Reader Q&A: how united are the Democrats ahead of the US midterms?

Donald Trump responded to the Federal Reserve’s unanimous decision on Wednesday to raise its benchmark interest rate by a quarter-percentage point, to a range of 3.75% to 4%, by demanding a massive cut in rates.

Writing on his social media platform, the president also offered a bizarre argument that the United States economy would benefit “if we stopped Trading with every country that we have a Deficit with, which is most of them”.

Here is the president’s complete statement on the interest rate hike, taken to combat inflation driven at least in part by the rise in oil prices caused by the war on Iran he started and has not been able to end.

double quotation markInterest Rates in the United States should be 1%, or less, because we are the Best Credit in the World – BY FAR. Our Country is BOOMING with new Investment! If we stopped Trading with every country that we have a Deficit with, which is most of them, we would make, at least, 1.5 Trillion Dollars a year. The word ‘Deficit’ is nothing more than a fancy word for LOSS. We are ‘carrying’ almost every country in the World, and that cannot go on any longer. LOWER THE INTEREST RATES FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AND FAST!

The central bank’s move is the first time the Fed has raised rates since July 2023 and clearly set Kevin Warsh, Trump’s pick to be the new Fed chair, on a collision course with the president.

“The plain fact is that inflation is too high and has been for too long,” Warsh said on Wednesday. “This summer’s inflation readings do not tell me that underlying trends have meaningfully improved.”

As fans of Donald Trump wait for the start of his remarks in North Carolina, a live feed showed that they were just treated to Sinéad O’Connor’s rendition of Prince’s Nothing Compares 2 U.

It was not clear what the Republicans in attendance made to the tune, given that the late Irish singer was for a time a hate figure for American conservatives, after she tore up a photograph of Pope John Paul II during an appearance on Saturday Night Live in 1992, and said: “fight the real enemy.”

The US Congress has passed a sweeping bill allowing Donald Trump to raise tariffs on top buyers of Russian energy and issue other punishing sanctions against the Kremlin following a pitched battle between lawmakers backing Ukraine and sceptics worried the bill gives the president too much power.

The Lindsey O Graham Sanctioning Russia and Iran Act of 2026 passed in a 262-159 vote on the last day before Congress goes on recess ahead of the midterm elections. Graham, who died earlier this year, co-authored and submitted the bill more than a year and a half ago.

The long delay in the vote was widely considered to be scepticism from the Trump administration, which had opposed additional sanctions and then recently changed its stance to support submitting the bill as efforts to negotiate with the Kremlin to end the war have yielded few results.

However the bill faced last-minute hurdles in Congress as members of the Republican party’s isolationist wing were joined by Democrats who warned that Trump could use the bill’s new tariffs authority against allies instead.

The bill would mandate new sanctions on Russian political and military officials, and foreign networks helping to supply Russia’s war machine and evade existing sanctions. It would also target Russia’s so-called fleet of “shadow tankers”, which have allowed the country to continue to ship crude around the world despite sanctions on its energy exports.

It would also allow Trump to impose tariffs of up to 100% on the top purchasers of Russian energy, including China, as well as other countries helping the Kremlin evade sanctions.

Senior Democrats voiced opposition to the bill during a heated floor debate. “Why in the world would this Congress give this president additional authority to visit that kind of economic harm on the American people?” said Hakeem Jeffries, the leading Democrat in the House, during a speech on Wednesday, adding he would vote against the bill.

The US Department of Defense’s chief technology officer, Emil Michael, dismissed safety concerns raised by the leaders of artificial intelligence companies in an interview with CNBC on Wednesday.

Michael, a former Uber executive, previously led the Pentagon’s efforts to press Anthropic to allow the defense department to use its Claude AI model for fully autonomous lethal weapons or domestic mass surveillance.

Michael repeatedly said he opposes increased government regulatory oversight of AI companies and claimed that the alarms raised by leading AI firms were part of a “coordinated campaign to scare people to make irrational decisions that benefit” those firms.

He also sugges