Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Wednesday released footage allegedly showing a Saudi F-15 being hit by a missile over Marib province, followed by images of what the group claimed was the fighter jet’s wreckage at a desert crash site.The footage came as Saudi Arabia faced heightened security concerns over potential threats to Mecca amid an escalation in attacks by rebels.The footage, appears to show what the Houthis describe as a missile intercepting a fighter jet before showing the alleged crash site. Houthi rebels are seen around the wreckage, with one aircraft component appearing to carry the Saudi flag. The group also shows a large piece of the alleged aircraft while armed fighters stand nearby.The footage has not been independently verified, and Saudi Arabia has not confirmed that it has lost an F-15.Houthi military spokesman Yahya Saree earlier claimed the aircraft was shot down while conducting what he described as “hostile operations”.“The Yemeni Armed Forces, with Allah's aid and grace, succeeded in shooting down a Saudi F-15 fighter jet while it was carrying out hostile operations,” Saree said on social media, according to Euronews.He claimed the aircraft had been targeted “using a locally made air-to-air missile”.Saree also accused Saudi Arabia of carrying out more than 450 strikes against Houthi positions this week. The Houthis have released the footage amid a wider escalation between the group and Saudi Arabia.The spokesperson did not specify when the alleged shootdown took place, and the agency said it could not independently verify the claim. Saudi government and Saudi-led coalition did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Earlier, Saudi authorities said air defences intercepted and destroyed a Houthi drone south of Mecca before it entered the holy city’s restricted airspace. The alert followed a brief emergency warning issued Tuesday amid escalating Houthi attacks. The Houthis have denied targeting Mecca, while Saudi Arabia called holy-site security a “red line”.Saree said, “Our operations target its oil facilities and military bases, which are far removed from the sacred sites,” while accusing Saudi authorities of spreading “fabrications and lies”.The Saudi-led coalition , meanwhile, warned that the security of the holy sites remained a “red line”.“The security of the Two Holy Mosques and the pilgrims is a red line, and the Joint Forces Command of the Coalition will not hesitate to take the necessary and deterrent measures against the terrorist Houthi militia,” coalition spokesman Turki al-Maliki said in a statement shared on X.The alleged F-15 loss, if subsequently confirmed, would mark a significant development in the latest escalation. For now, however, the central claim remains unverified, with no independent confirmation of the aircraft’s identity, the circumstances of the reported interception or when the incident occurred.Saudi Arabia is facing growing pressure to secure both a reliable route for its crude exports and additional military support as attacks in the region intensify. Two pumping stations along the country’s vital East-West Pipeline were damaged in last week’s attack, with no clear timeline for repairs, according to three oil and security sources. Operated by Saudi Aramco, the 1,200-km pipeline provides an alternative route for crude exports, helping the kingdom bypass the Strait of Hormuz. Saudi officials said the pipeline was temporarily shut following a drone attack launched from Iraq.Catch the latest World News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.