Thaçi held criminally responsible for war crimes during the violent break from Serbia in the 1990s

Former Kosovo Liberation Army commander and later Kosovo president Hashim Thaçi has been sentenced to 25 years in prison as he is held criminally responsible for war crimes during the violent break from Serbia in the 1990s by the international court in The Hague.

“As prosecutors presented their case against Thaci and fellow defendants Rexhep Selemi, Kadri Veseli and Jakup Krasniqi – all senior figures in the KLA’s leadership during the war against Serb forces from 1998 to 1999 – they described an alleged campaign of murder, torture and repression against opponents and members of ethnic minorities directed by the four men. …

The proceedings, deeply unpopular in Kosovo and neighbouring Albania, recall the period of brutal conflict between 1998 and 1999 where both Serbian and Kosovan armed organisations committed war crimes in the context of the KLA’s armed uprising and Belgrade’s military response.

His supporters gathered in Kosovo earlier today to listen to the verdict:

Former Kosovo Liberation Army commander and later Kosovo president Hashim Thaçi has been sentenced to 25 years in prison as he is held criminally responsible for war crimes during the violent break from Serbia in the 1990s by an international court in The Hague (11:33, 16:01).

It found that Thaçi “was a key member” in the Kosovo Liberation Army and even “personally participated in crimes,” despite his denials (11:56).

The decision of the tribunal was deeply unpopular in Kosovo, where people booed the verdict and chanted in support of their former leader (12:40), while some of his supporters even briefly clashed with police in The Hague (13:11, 14:45).

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen has warned the EU is “the strongest” but “most precarious” it has ever been as it faces “an openly hostile world”, as she floated the idea of Canada getting an “associate membership” of the bloc (10:42, 11:04).

There is no existing legal structure that would allow for that move, leaving lots of questions over what that would actually entail (16:40).

Carney is set to address the European parliament on Thursday (11:13), after visiting the UK this evening to watch his beloved Everton play in the third round of the Carabao Cup (13:28).

In a wide-ranging speech, von der Leyen also announced proposals to ban social media for children under 13 as she warned their omnipresence were “depriving children of their childhood.”

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Final votes are being counted in Sweden, with authorities reporting some 300,000 early and overseas ballots.

The left-leaning opposition remains ahead with a projected 176 seats in parliament, compared with 173 for the governing right-leaning coalition and the far-right Sweden Democrats.

But the gap between the two blocs remains razor-thin – under 27,000 votes – with only 1.3% of districts yet to submit their results.

Swedish public broadcaster SVT projects that one seat could still shift, but no more than that, which would leave the opposition as the formal winners of the election.

Party leaders on both sides suggested that any formal talks about what’s next would only start once the final results are in – and both leaders, the incumbent prime minister Ulf Kristersson and opposition leader Magdalena Andersson, hinted that they would be keen to have a go at forming the next government.

Taking the European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen’s offer of an “associate membership” for Canada, our Brussels correspondent Jennifer Rankin looks at what it could possibly mean in practice.

“The 27-member EU has never had an associate membership category, although it has close ties with Norway, Iceland and Switzerland, allowing deep economic integration with these countries, who follow many EU rules. It remains to be seen what associate membership means, including for Canada’s relationship with the EU single market.

When the UK was negotiating its departure from the bloc and post-Brexit relationship, EU officials repeatedly said there was no status that enabled a foreign country to be half in and half out of the single market. The EU also staunchly defended unpicking the four freedoms of its internal market – freedom of goods, services, people and capital.

Sore points likely to be addressed include 10 EU member states, including France, Poland and Italy, having failed to ratify the EU-Canada trade deal, nearly 10 years after it was struck in 2016.

The offer of associate membership is certain to raise questions among other EU allies, including the UK, which has long sought a more flexible approach from Brussels.

Martin Leng at the Brussels Institute for Geopolitics thinktank said a world in flux was “pushing the EU towards far greater flexibility in its relations