Allahabad HC sets man who voluntarily converted to Islam free from his Hindu family’s custody

Arunachal environmental activist booked by CBI for allegedly receiving illegal foreign funds

Why parents prefer private schools over government schools – despite similar learning outcomes

Assam: Bulldozing homes of 73 Muslim families in Goalpara was unlawful, says HC

Rush Hour: Pakistani, Indian naval ships collide, Congress asks Modi to roll back UPI charges & more

CBI mentions Uddhav, Aaditya Thackeray in Sushant Singh Rajput’s former manager death case

Bengal withdraws approval for Akshaya Patra Foundation to provide mid-day meals in 4 districts

At BRICS summit, why Vladimir Putin went on diplomatic blitz with Global South leaders

A new irrigation project threatens to displace both cheetahs and humans in Kuno

The Ministry of External Affairs summoned the Pakistani charge d’affaires in Delhi to register a “strong protest” about the collision of a Pakistani naval vessel with an Indian Navy ship. The incident occurred in international waters in the Arabian Sea.

It was not clear when the collision occurred and what cause it. However, New Delhi said that the conduct of Pakistani naval units at sea was “unacceptable and unprofessional”.

While the collision did not cause major damage, the conduct of the Pakistani vessel contravened a 1991 bilateral agreement that requires advance notice about military exercises, manoeuvres and the movement of soldiers, said the ministry. Read on.

Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi demanded that the Union government roll back charges on Unified Payments Interface payments. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “have a spine” and “stop lying down in front of the United States”.

Aam Aadmi Party said the charges were part of Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government’s “new loot policy” and described it as an example of “Trump’s pressure on PM Modi’s decisions and his direct influence over India’s internal matters”.

However, the Union Ministry of Finance said claims that the charges had been introduced because of “foreign influence” were false and said decisions on UPI policy were “made independently. Read on.

Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra said in a video on social media that eggs had been thrown at her during a meeting in West Bengal’s Krishnanagar, allegedly by BJP workers. She said that the incident took place despite police personnel being present.

Moitra said that she was “facing eggs, just like she was told” to. The MP was referring to a comment made by Supreme Court Justice Dipankar Datta in August, when he asked Moitra: “Having taken the plunge into politics, you fear eggs? When our freedom fighters have taken bullets on their chest?”

She also pointed out that the Calcutta High Court had earlier this month directed the government to deal with the “menace of egg-pelting with an iron hand”. Read on.

The Union government has increased the gold hallmarking fee by 67%, hiking it to Rs 75 per article from Rs 45 ahead of the festive season. The fee for silver articles has been fixed at Rs 35, with a minimum charge of Rs 150 per consignment.

Hallmark gold refers to jewellery that has been certified purity by the Bureau of Indian Standards.

The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council has opposed the hike, urging the government to review the decision and retain the existing charge until consultations are held with stakeholders.

The increased operating cost might lead to jewellers opting to add fake hallmarks to jewellery, the body warned. Read on.

All the supporting acts for British singer Ed Sheeran’s United States tour have quit after rapper Macklemore was removed from the tour for his pro-Palestine remarks on stage. The rapper faced criticism from Jewish groups for saying “Free Palestine” and making political speeches at two concerts.

Sheeran attributed the decision to drop Macklemore to the promoters of the tour, alleging that they said they would pull the shows if he continued to be a part of the shows.

Following the announcement, three of Sheeran’s supporting acts – Aaron Rowe, Lukas Graham and Finneas – as well as backing band Beoga said they were leaving the tour in solidarity with the rapper. Read on.

If you haven’t already, sign up for our Daily Brief newsletter.