Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah. | Photo Credit: ANI

Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah backed the Centre on Wednesday (September 16, 2026) over a levy for UPI transactions, saying maintaining and operating the digital-payment infrastructure is not cheap, but cautioned the government to protect retail consumers.

"This charge is not being levied on everyone. First of all, person-to-person money transfers carry no charge. Then, individual consumers will not be charged unless they cross a specific ceiling," Mr. Abdullah told reporters here.

Asserting that maintaining and operating the UPI infrastructure is not cheap, the Chief Minister said it takes a substantial amount of money to run the payment system.

"The reality is also that when something is offered completely free, we often fail to value it properly. That said, the Government of India must ensure that ordinary citizens are spared from these fees. If companies are charged, then I have no objection, as companies profit substantially through UPI anyway," he added.

To a question on the upcoming Assembly session, the Chief Minister said the government's priority will be to ensure that the House functions smoothly and the MLAs receive satisfactory responses. "In a legislative session, there are two types of agenda. One is the government's own legislative business. In a Union Territory, that is naturally less compared to a full state but still, there are legislative matters that the government will present before the House.

"Alongside that, the honourable MLAs, whether from the treasury benches or the opposition, get an opportunity to raise questions regarding their respective constituencies and issues affecting people. Bills and resolutions are introduced, and the government makes an effort to address and respond to these matters," he said.

CM Abdullah said it is a seven-day session and several issues will be brought before the House.

"The government's priority will be to ensure that the House functions smoothly and the honourable MLAs receive satisfactory responses," he said.

Asked about concerns over drainage water flowing into water bodies, the Chief Minister said the issue did not just emerge over the last two years and is a legacy issue that cannot be solved overnight.

"However, work is underway. Projects are being drafted under various schemes -- whether under the SASCI or other initiatives. Continuous efforts are being made not only to protect our water bodies but also to rejuvenate and expand those," he said.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.