US president claims delay is also in response to requests from Iran and other countries in the region

Donald Trump has said he cancelled planned military strikes against Iran on the basis of “rapidly” reaching a deal on its nuclear programme and the full reopening of the strait of Hormuz.

The US president paused the strikes in expectation of a breakthrough and in response to requests from Iran and other countries in the region, he claimed on his Truth Social platform on Saturday.

“Based on this request, I have agreed, for the future benefit of the WORLD and, likewise, the survival of a successful and prosperous Iran, to cancel the attack, subject to being able to rapidly make a DEAL.”

The deal would include the immediate and complete reopening of the strait and “an end to Iran’s nuclear threat”, he posted. It marked the latest climbdown from extravagant threats to pound the Islamic Republic in the months-long conflict.

However, hopes of a breakthrough faded on Sunday when Iran’s Mehr news agency said Trump’s claim that Tehran had requested a pause “was nothing but a new lie” and that the Iranian armed forces were “on high alert and ready for any eventuality”.

Another Iranian news agency, Fars, citing a source close to Iranian negotiators, said that as long as the US “maintains its hostile actions” the strait would remain closed.

Iran’s acting defence minister, Majid Ebn-e-Reza, said Trump had backed down “within the context of psychological operations and a war of calculations”. Iran’s forces would remain on alert, the minister said on X. “We will neither be taken by surprise nor will we be passive.”

Mediation efforts were continuing amid the standoff. Hassan Ghashghavi, a spokesperson for the Iranian parliament’s national security commission, said in a video interview that mediators were trying to revive an agreement brokered by Pakistan in June, Agence France-Presse reported.

The decision to halt fresh strikes came after the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, called Trump on Saturday to express concerns, it was reported. Trump’s reversal also followed Iranian threats to retaliate decisively against its neighbours in the event of US strikes, while Kuwait reported being hit by Iranian drones on Saturday and two ships were attacked off Oman in the strait of Hormuz.

One source described as having knowledge of the Trump-Prince Mohammed call told Axios that the Saudi crown prince had “urged Trump to de-escalate and refrain from launching the strikes”.

The Associated Press (AP) also reported the conversation, citing its own source. It said the Saudis were concerned that if the US targeted Iran’s energy infrastructure or carried out massive strikes on other key infrastructure, Tehran could respond by carrying out similar attacks on the kingdom and other Gulf countries.

The crown prince during Saturday’s call sought clarity from Trump on what potential new action he was weighing to take against Iran, AP reported.

A White House official, who was not authorised to comment publicly and requested anonymity, confirmed to AP that Trump and Prince Mohammed spoke on Saturday, but did not offer any detail about the substance of their conversation.

Saudi Arabia earlier this week joined the US in striking logistics and weapons sites used by Iranian-backed militias in Iraq, but has been urging the US and Iran to return to the negotiating table.

CBS News reported that the US and Israel were planning joint strikes, possibly throughout the weekend, with oil refineries and power plants among possible targets.

Eli Cohen, Israel’s energy minister and a member of prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s security cabinet, said there was close security and intelligence coordination between Israel and the US on everything happening in the region, while adding: “With or without an agreement, and regardless of any external commitments, if Iran attempts to renew its nuclear programme or advance its ballistic missile industries, we will be there. We will take action, and we will strike.”

The Israeli military, meanwhile, launched airstrikes on Sunday that hit Gaza for a second straight day, killing at least 18 Palestinians, medics said, despite Trump’s announcement of a breakthrough in efforts to implement last year’s ceasefire.

Israeli warplanes hit Gaza City in the north, the central ⁠city of Deir al-Balah and the ⁠southern area of Khan Younis, causing the biggest ​daily death toll in weeks, according to Palestinian health officials.

Trump’s assertion that Hamas militants had agreed to disarm had raised hopes of a turning point.

But on Sunday Cohen said Israel would give Hamas the opportunity to disarm but he was “very sceptical” that would happen.

Tehran warned this weekend against any “adventurous action” by the US and said it ⁠would retaliate decisively. The comments by Iran’s foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, in separate phone calls on Saturday with senior Turkish, Pakistani and Saudi officials came just hours af