Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Aluva Manappuram remains waterlogged after heavy rain lashed the region on August 1, 2026. | Photo Credit: R.K. Nithin

Kerala Chief Minister V.D. Satheesan today said that eight people have died, an equal number are missing and 13 were injured in the previous day’s heavy rains, which caused property damage, landslides and waterlogging in many parts of the State.

Also read | Cloudburst-like event exposes gaps in State’s weather forecasting, disaster preparedness

In a statement issued by his office, Mr. Satheesan also said that 27 houses were completely destroyed, 196 homes were partially damaged and 5,792 people have been shifted to the 209 relief camps set up across the state.

Meanwhile, Kerala braced for the likelihood of heavy rains and flooding on Sunday (August 2, 2026), the latest in a string of stormy days that have wreaked havoc across the State.

Also read | Heavy rain in Kerala results in increase in storage level in Mullaperiyar dam; Idukki Collector cautions public to avoid night travel on ghat section

The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for 12 districts. It has warned of heavy rains and the possibility of flash floods, mudslides, and road and neighbourhood inundation in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasargod districts.

Expressing his grief over the loss of lives in the Kerala floods, Rahul Gandhi said, “Deeply saddened by the devastation caused by heavy rains across Kerala. My heartfelt condolences to the families of the eight people who have lost their lives. May those still missing be found safe, and the injured make a swift recovery.”

187 people have been shifted to 13 relief camps in the Idukki district.

Peerumade and Thodupuzha taluks received over 200 mm of extremely heavy rainfall last morning, resulting in a series of landslides in Idukki.

The Kasaragod District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) today reviewed the monsoon situation and directed all departments to remain on high alert for the next two days as heavy rain continued to affect parts of the district.

Chairing the DDMA meeting, District Collector Arjun Pandian said officials had responded effectively over the past few days and coordinated relief operations efficiently.

He instructed all departments to remain prepared to tackle any emergency.

Kasaragod district remains on high alert for floods as heavy rain continues, with 208 people in five relief camps.

Beneath the churn of Kerala’s turbulent seas, two dead and five missing fishermen from Muthalapozhi, Vizhinjam, Tangasseri and Neendakara bear testament to a stark human tragedy where survival at sea is pitted directly against survival at home. All incidents were reported during a brief window from July 29 while a blanket weather warning, banning all fishing operations, was in effect. For low-income crews, sitting out continuous days means total income loss, and abiding by warnings is a luxury they cannot afford. Meanwhile, officials confess that they are powerless to block unsafe departures at many centres.

Kerala fishers risk their lives at sea, prioritizing survival over safety due to poverty and inadequate government support.

CPI(M) leaders today criticised Kerala Chief Minister V.D. Satheesan over his visit to the residence of a Youth League leader in Malappuram, alleging that it was inappropriate at a time when thousands of people across the state were reeling from rain-related disasters.

In a Facebook post, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP A.A. Rahim Rahim shared visuals of the Chief Minister attending an event in Ponnani in Malappuram and said that it initially appeared “unbelievable” before he could confirm it.

He alleged that while thousands of people in different districts were suffering due to the disaster, Mr. Satheesan spent time as a guest at the residence of a Youth League leader in Malappuram’s Ponnani and had a lavish meal.

MLA G. Sudhakaran today said that the timely opening of the shutters of the Thottappally spillway here by the Irrigation Department helped avert major flooding in the Kuttanad and Ambalappuzha regions following heavy inflow from the Pampa and Manimala rivers.

Floodwaters from the Pampa and Manimala rivers, which flow through rain-hit Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts, drain into the low-lying Kuttanad region of Alappuzha before emptying into the Arabian Sea.

The district has the Thottappally spillway, while the barrages at Thanneermukkom and Andhakaranazhi regulate water flow and prevent seawater intrusion to facilitate agriculture.

A day after relentless rain left several parts of Ernakulam reeling, the district witnessed marked improvement in weather conditions today. Water levels were gradually receding in several affe