How Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’ can help readers understand the hidden costs of AI

No repeat of Sunali Khatun case, but action against undocumented immigrants to continue: Bengal CM

‘I forgive misguided children who abused me, let’s show them the right path’: PM Modi

Why the philosophical conversations in Mohammad Iqbal’s poetry are relevant to modern political life

Tigmanshu Dhulia on playing the waiting game: ‘When you go against the tide, there will be problems’

Nobody can interfere with women’s decision to convert to Islam voluntarily, says Allahabad HC

The story of Kerala’s first female writer-composer who transcended her time

Eight persons died and thirteen were injured in rain-related incidents between Friday and Saturday in Kerala as heavy downpour triggered landslides and flash floods, reported The Hindu.

Four fishermen from Thiruvananthapuram district and two from Kollam were also missing. Two residents of Kannur had also gone missing after falling into a river, according to the newspaper.

Among those who died are two children – three-year-old Abdul Muhaini and four-year-old Adam Ayman. They drowned after falling into a swollen stream in Malappuram.

Another child, 11-year-old Milan K Shinu, died after falling into a waterlogged pit dug for a Jal Jeevan Mission project, reported The Hindu.

The mission is a Union government scheme launched in 2019 to provide piped water connections and safe drinking water to all rural households.

In Idukki’s Thodupuzha, 69-year-old Sumanthi was killed after her home in Kudayathoor panchayat was buried due to a landslide. In the district’s Kolahalamedu, 72-year-old Prabhakaran Nair died when a mudslide struck his house.

In Kottayam’s Kaippally, 28-year-old Josephin Johny and his 48-year-old mother Regina Johny were buried under debris after a landslide triggered by heavy rains caused part of the hillside adjoining their home to collapse.

Chief Minister VD Satheeshan has announced that financial assistance would be provided to families of those killed and to persons who lost homes, farms or livelihoods due to the rains.

The chief minister’s office said that 27 homes were completely destroyed, 196 homes were partially damaged and 5,792 people have been taken to 209 relief camps, PTI reported.

Gujarat also received heavy rains from Friday to Saturday, leading to authorities issuing flood alerts in five districts, reported The Indian Express.

Overnight rainfall led to flooding in Vadodara district and nearby areas. Rescue teams evacuated around 150 persons, including 140 students, from a hostel near Waghodia, where they were stranded in waist-deep water, according to the newspaper.

In Narmada district, seven gates of the Karjan Dam were opened due to heavy rainfall in the catchment area. Fifteen to 20 downstream villages were on alert after around 82,100 cusecs of water, including hydropower discharge, was released into the Karjan river.

Bharuch district was also on high alert, with authorities closing 15 roads as heavy rain caused several causeways to overflow.

In Kheda district, heavy rain since caused the Shedhi river to flow above danger level. The authorities have advised residents along the riverbanks to remain alert.

Also read: Deluge with monsoon deficit is India’s new climate normal