Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Purnia MP Pappu Yadav addressing the media after a clash during his press conference at his residence in New Delhi on August 02, 2026. | Photo Credit: R.V. Moorthy

Two men intruded into the residence of Independent MP Pappu Yadav on Sunday (August 2, 2026) and one of them hurled a slipper at him when he was addressing a press conference.

While his supporters alleged that one assailant was also carrying a knife, Opposition leaders targeted the Delhi police for failing to ensure the safety of a parliamentarian.

At the press conference, Mr. Yadav countered the allegations levelled against him for staging a skit on the Ram Temple donation theft in the Parliament complex on July 31.

Police personnel detain a man after he allegedly hurled a slipper at Pappu Yadav. | Photo Credit: PTI

Referring to the donations case, Mr. Yadav said he had only asked questions about the missing gold and silver. “I have done nothing wrong. It is not as if I am not a Sanatani. Today, we are demanding answers from the Prime Minister regarding the way the faith of the common man has been undermined,” he said.

The incident took place around 6.15 p.m. Standing among the journalists, one of the intruders – later identified as Sumit from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr – hurled a footwear at Mr. Yadav, following which his supporters overpowered him. The police later took him into custody.

Mr. Yadav later told mediapersons: “There has been an ongoing conspiracy to kill me. Several babas have spoken about ‘burning me alive or killing me’ ...had so many people not been present, I would have been dead today. Just last night, my family was also harassed.”

On the Varanasi police registering a first information report against him, Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi, and Samajwadi Party MP Awadhesh Prasad [for the skit], he said: “Rahul Gandhi was never afraid of an FIR; Priyanka Gandhi was never afraid; so how could Pappu Yadav be afraid? If Pappu Yadav has to die to protest the faith of the people of Sanatan and India against those who betray Sanatan and God, I [will] step out every day to face death…”

In a statement to the media, Mr. Yadav’s advocate Kanishk Arora termed it a major failure of the police, particularly when they were told a day earlier that there was the possibility of anti-social elements resorting to such an act. “Despite informing the police, only two or three personnel were deployed. Even then, this incident occurred, which I strongly condemn. We will initiate legal action,” he said.

The incident provoked sharp reactions from Opposition leaders. Congress MP Pawan Khera criticised the police. “The Delhi police seems remarkably efficient when it comes to repressing students peacefully demanding their constitutional rights. But when it comes to protecting a vocal Opposition leader – even a sitting Member of Parliament – at his own residence, it suddenly falls short,” he said.

He said: “Even since Anurag Kumar took charge as Delhi’s Police Commissioner, the force’s record has gone from bad to worse.”

CPI (M) MP V. Sivadasan also condemned the attack, saying that those who raised questions about the alleged loot of the temple’s money or the money donated by believers were facing attacks by “RSS and BJP persons”. He said huge amounts had been looted allegedly by the members of trust, which was formed by the Modi government. The BJP was also in power in Uttar Pradesh. He alleged that the Union government had been using Central enforcement agencies against the Opposition and now “goons” were also working for them.

Condemning the incident, Shiv Sena leader Shaina NC, however, urged Mr. Yadav to desist from making “provocative” statements. “There is no place for aggressive politics, but if you attack Sanatan dharma, if you condemn religious beliefs, there is going to be a backlash. Nobody is propagating violence, but this attack on democracy and public representatives needs to be condemned unequivocally. Pappu Yadav should also think why he makes such kind of provocative statements that attracts reactions in this particular way,” she said.

ALSO WATCH FIR against MPs Rahul Gandhi, Pappu Yadav and Awadesh Prasad for ‘insulting Sanatan Dharma’

Rajya Sabha MP Upendra Kushwaha also denounced the incident. “There is no place for such actions in a democracy. The way Pappu Yadav himself has been conducting himself is objectionable. But, regardless of that, whoever threw the slipper, it is unacceptable,” he said.

Mr. Sumit’s friend Happy Sharma, later told the media that he and Sumit had come from Bulandshahr to Mr. Yadav’s residence to support the sadhus protesting against the MP for "hurting their religious sentiments”. “We only asked him why he was insulting the sadhus and saints, saffron robes, and Lord Ram...slippers were throw