NEW DELHI: Hundreds of students continued their protest in Ranchi on Sunday for the fifth consecutive day over alleged irregularities in the 14th Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) examination, the JSSC-CGL and other recruitment tests. The demonstrators are seeking a CBI probe into recruitment examinations, cancellation of the 14th JPSC Combined Preliminary Test and reforms in the state’s recruitment agencies.The protestors escalated their agitation with a torchlight procession and threatened to march to the Jharkhand Assembly if the state government does not address their demands.The students, who are holding an indefinite sit-in at Jaipal Singh Munda Stadium, marched to Albert Ekka Chowk on Sunday evening, raising slogans against the JMM-led alliance government and demanding an impartial investigation into the alleged irregularities in the JPSC and JSSC examinations.They warned that if the government failed to respond in the coming days, they would march to the Jharkhand Assembly and stage a gherao.“We have been holding protests, but no government officials approached us to listen to our concerns on these issues. This clearly shows the insensitivity of this JMM-led alliance government towards the thousands of students and youths of the state,” the protesters alleged.The demonstration began on July 29 and has since drawn support from students across Jharkhand, many of whom say years of preparation for competitive examinations are being undermined by repeated allegations of paper leaks and irregularities.At the protest site, students continued raising slogans such as “Order CBI probe in JPSC”, “Long live Students Unity” and “Shame on Hemant Soren”.“Paper leaks in JPSC have happened several times. This time, OMR sheets of candidates have been leaked. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has ordered a CID probe, but we are not satisfied,” JPSC aspirant Rahul Kumar Kranti said.He alleged that previous investigations into the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission CGL paper leak had not resulted in action and claimed that the latest probe could also be “covered up” after a few months.“We have completely lost faith in the ongoing CID probe. We demand a CBI probe into all recruitment examinations conducted by the JPSC and JSSC over the past seven years. We also demand the chief minister’s resignation on moral grounds,” Kranti said.The protesters are demanding cancellation of the 14th JPSC Combined Preliminary Test held on April 19 and an independent investigation by central agencies, including the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate, into alleged irregularities in recruitment examinations conducted by the JPSC and JSSC. They are also seeking the introduction of a fifth option of “not attempted” in OMR sheets.For many of the young demonstrators, the protest has become a struggle over fairness and opportunity rather than merely an examination dispute.“The careers of thousands of students and aspirants are at stake due to corruption in both agencies. Most of us come from farmers’ families. We only want fair opportunities based on merit,” said Ankit Kumar from Giridih district.Sneha, a tribal student from Ranchi, said protesters wanted strict punishment for those involved in the alleged irregularities and cancellation of the 14th JPSC examination.“I have been preparing for competitive examinations since 2023. But if an equal and fair chance is not given, how can I get a job? I urge CM Soren to listen to our demands,” she said.Archana Kumari from Palamu said the students would continue their agitation until the government addressed their demands and fixed accountability for the alleged irregularities.Despite days of protest, students said they were determined to continue their sit-in, with volunteers and supporters from different parts of the country helping sustain the demonstration.“The state government is still in a sleeping mode. We are getting support from across the country. People from various cities are sending food items to the protest site. We are thankful to those helping us continue our protest,” said Shyam Bihari Gupta, a student from Balumath in Latehar district.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.