Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Karnataka Chief Minister D.K. Shivakumar chairs an all-party meeting on the Cauvery water issue at the CM’s home office, ‘Krishna’, in Bengaluru on August 2, 2026. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah is also present. | Photo Credit: ANI

Stating that the water situation in the Cauvery is “slightly better” in view of the rain, Karnataka Chief Minister D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday (August 2, 2026) reiterated his appeal to the Kannada organisations to withdraw their State-wide bandh plan on August 13.

However, Kannada Chaluvali leader Vatal Nagaraj, who is leading the protest, said the bandh will be held as planned.

ALSO WATCH Can a dynamic formula for distress years ease Cauvery conflict? | Decode Karnataka

At an all-party meeting, the Chief Minister said Karnataka is carefully assessing the Cauvery situation, including the petition of the DMK in the Supreme Court. A limited quantity of water is being released from the reservoirs in the light of rain, he said.

The meeting had been convened to address the concerns over the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA)’s directive to the State to abide by the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee’s order to release 3,500 cubic metres daily to Tamil Nadu for 15 days. The order set off protests in parts of Karnataka.

“(Four) reservoirs in the Cauvery basin are cumulatively receiving about 68,000 cusecs of water. Our dams were not full since there was no rain. There has been some rain (now) and the situation has become slightly better. Kabini (reservoir) is full,” he told presspersons here after the all-party meeting.

The data shared by the Water Resources Department shows that Karnataka was releasing water at the rate of 25,000 cusecs from the Kabini reservoir and 1,819 cusecs from the Krishna Raja Sagar on Sunday to Tamil Nadu.

The Chief Minister said: “We are releasing a limited quantity of water through canals only to fill lakes and tanks meant for drinking water purposes, and not for irrigation.”

Reiterating that the proposed Mekedatu project on the Cauvery is the long-term solution to the problems faced by both the States, he said, “Karnataka will respect the law and orders of the Supreme Court while protecting the State’s interest.”

On the petition filed by the DMK in the Supreme Court, Mr. Shivakumar said: “We are closely watching the situation. Individual petitions of political parties and organisations are treated differently. We have to utilise our experience and be careful.” He also said that a legal and technical team would fight the State’s case.

Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Joesph Vijay has agreed to postpone his visit to Bengaluru to discuss the Cauvery issue on the request of the Karnataka government, he said. “Mr. Vijay intended to hold talks, but the meeting has been deferred. I requested from him that we meet later when a cordial atmosphere prevails. I do not want anyone shouting slogans against my friends. We should respect each other. We have to live together and work together. Ultimately, India is one,” said the Karnataka Chief Minister.

Asked if he would be able to convince Mr. Vijay of the situation, he said: “We will make him understand (the situation) and he will understand. Though he is new to politics, he is courageous. Whatever our political differences may be, he wanted to come to Karnataka.”

He said he will speak to the protesting farmers, Kannada organisations, and Opposition leaders. “Our Ministers will also speak. When the government is standing with you and nature is also with you, bandh is of no use. It will affect our schools and businesses. Ultimately, it will not help us. We are committed to farmers’ welfare and bound to protect the State's interest,” the Chief Minister said. “They [Opposition leaders] have pledged their support to the Government and have provided valuable suggestions. We will take the suggestions that will be discussed with the legal team before moving forward.”

However, in Mysuru, former MLA Vatal Nagaraj said the bandh had not been called on one issue. “More than 2,000 Kannada organisations have extended support to the bandh. Educational institutions, film chambers and hotel industries, among others, have extended support. Bandh is for various issues, including the Mahadayi river water dispute, employment for Kannadigas, and the development of the Mysuru-Hyderabad-Karnataka region, North Karnataka, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad, and border areas. There is no question of withdrawing the bandh.”

ALSO WATCH Watch: History of Cauvery water-sharing talks between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of Th