President claims families not worried, despite relatives raising concerns, but confirms USS George Washington will replace aircraft carrier on Iran mission

Trump administration asks ⁠US supreme court to allow construction of White House ballroom

As he left Washington, Donald Trump dismissed the reports about the mental health crisis and living conditions on board USS Abraham Lincoln.

When he was asked by reporters whether family members were worried about the situation, the president said “no, they’re not.”

The vessel has now been on a record-breaking deployment for more than 250 days, but Trump said that it had not been at sea for too long. “Not nearly enough,” he said.

The president also confirmed that the USS Abraham Lincoln would now be replaced by another aircraft carrier. On Thursday, the Wall Street Journal reported that the USS George Washington would be sent to relieve the Abraham Lincoln, after it was redirected to help with the military operation in Iran.

“That ship is moving right now or very shortly and it’s being replaced with another very similar ship,” Trump said.

The acting secretary of the navy, Hung Cao, again denied poor conditions and a mental health crisis on board USS Abraham Lincoln.

“The USS Abraham Lincoln crushed their deployment and will return home soon as part of a planned rotation,” Cao said in a post on X. “Unfortunately, the media are trying to paint our warriors as victims.”

Here’s more from my colleague Edward Pilkington, who reported on the crisis aboard the aircraft carrier:

double quotation markTwo leading specialist military papers, the Navy Times and Stars and Stripes, are reporting that there have been multiple attempts by sailors to jump overboard as poor conditions and mental stresses on the Lincoln reach the breaking point. The crew is in its ninth month at sea, and has spent 250 days consecutively without making land – a record for an aircraft carrier in modern times.

Worried families vented their anxieties about loved ones onboard the Lincoln at an emotional town hall meeting with navy leaders in San Diego last Thursday, Stars and Stripes reported. One spouse among the 200 or so family members said that her husband had texted her that day saying “he hopes he doesn’t wake up tomorrow”.

The families’ worries were expressed directly to navy leadership, represented at the town hall by the acting navy secretary, Hung Cao, and other top officials.

A woman at the meeting told Cao that the navy had “broken trust between us and the leadership”, the paper reported.

The Navy Times gave details of thwarted suicide attempts onboard the aircraft carrier during the current deployment. Annabelle Loma told the outlet that her husband had tried to jump overboard after his spell at sea kept being extended.

“He’s scared. He thinks he’ll get a dishonorable discharge, and just because he was burnt out his 13-year career is ruined, just like that,” she said.

The paper quoted another sailor’s wife whose husband was involved in a separate incident onboard the Lincoln in which he prevented a fellow crew member from jumping, grabbing them and bringing them back on deck.

Trump has wrapped up his speech to to law enforcement on Long Island.

He wrapped up with his usual refrains against DEI. As he left the stage, he told Fox News on Iran: “We’re capable of destroying the whole place. If they hit, we would hit back 100 times harder.”

Trump insisted that his administration is “bringing the prices way down” despite the fact that the latest data says that overall inflation is up 3.4%, compared to a year ago.

He repeated his frequent claims that Iran “is being very badly defeated”, despite the fact that a peace deal remains elusive. “Pretty soon I’ll be declaring the Hormuz strait a territory of the United States.”

The president also brushed off the hike in US gas prices while addressing law enforcement officers in Long Island: “So remember that when you have to pay a little bit more, you’re at $4, it’s OK … I mean, I’ll never apologize. I did the right thing.”

The president also touted his executive order that directs the justice department to the pursue the death penalty for anyone convicted of killing a law enforcement officer.

However, it’s worth noting that Donald Trump issued pardons for more than 1,500 people involved in the January 6 insurrection, including those who assaulted Capitol police officers.

When he returned to the White House last year, Trump also directed the justice department to dismiss all pending indictments against people related to the Capitol riots.

At his remarks in Long Island, Donald Trump said that Washington DC is now “one of the safest cities” in the country, claiming that “crime is down 81%”.

However, total crime in the nation’s capital is actually only down by 20% at the point in 2026, compared to last year, according to data compiled by the DC police department.

Digging in further – assault with a dangerous weapon increased by 40% com