NEW DELHI: Referring to students as “architects of India’s future”, President Droupadi Murmu Friday said govt is undertaking comprehensive steps to reform the public examination system to “completely curb” the use of unfair means, make it more transparent, secure and trustworthy for the youth.“Just as govt and society must remain united to ensure national security, everyone must contribute through joint and concerted efforts to safeguard the present and future of our students. Public exams become gateways to opportunities for our students,” Murmu said in her address to the nation on Independence Day eve.Noting that 65% of India’s population is below the age of 35, she said, “This young population is our most valuable asset.”In a first, the full version of national song Vande Mataram — recently accorded the same legal status as national anthem — was played ahead of and at the conclusion of Murmu’s address. It was followed by the national anthem. The President recalled the pivotal role played by the national song during India’s freedom struggle.In her address, the President highlighted that “the youth of our country are talented, committed, and skilled”. “I have seen the innovative and practical solutions that young people are developing to address various challenges at the grassroots level. This reflects the dedication of our youth to society and the nation. A new phase of space exploration has been ushered in through the recent successful rocket launch by a young team with an average age of just 28 years,” the Murmu said. “Our younger generations strengthen my faith in India’s bright and prosperous future,” she added.The President also emphasised that physical and mental wellbeing of our youth forms the cornerstone of our country’s future. “Families and society also share the responsibility to motivate our youth to move ahead with enthusiasm,” she said.Reflecting on various issued during her address, the President, while noting that warfare and instability prevailing in several parts of the world are affecting every country, said that even in such trying circumstances, “according to economic projections, the growth rate of the Indian economy is expected to be more than twice the average global growth rate.”Mentioning that May 7 marked the completion of one year since the launch of Operation Sindoor, Murmu said, “That historic operation against terrorism sent a clear and firm message to terrorists and those who support them, that no matter where they hide, they will have to face the consequences of their actions.”Speaking in the context of Pakistan, the President said that the suspension of the Indus Waters Treaty with "the country that harbours terrorism" is a decisive step in the interest of India, especially the farmers.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.