Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

President’s Medal winners (from left) K. Ramachandran, Additional Superintendent of Police, and S. Shanmugam, Deputy Superintendent of Police. | Photo Credit: Special arrangement

As many as 20 police personnel of the Tamil Nadu police have been awarded with the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service and the Medal for Meritorious Service.

The awards were announced by the Government of India on the occasion of Independence Day.

The three officers who got the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service are K. Ramachandran, Additional Superintendent of Police, Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Virudhunagar, J. Vijay Anand, Additional SP, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai, and S. Kumar, Assistant Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police IXth Police Battalion, Manimuthar.

The 17 police officers who got the Medal for Meritorious Service were M. Somasundaram, Additional SP, Headquarters, Salem, K. Shivashankar, Additional SP, Coastal Security Group, Nagapattinam, P. Govindaraju, Additional SP, Headquarters, Thirupathur, S. Shanmugam, DSP, Muthukulathur, S. Manimaran, Assistant Commandant, TSP XIII Battalion, Avadi, I. Jeya Princess, Inspector of Police, CBCID, Thoothukudi, C. Mathimaran, Inspector of Police, SBCID, Chennai, P. Mariappan, Inspector of Police, Security Branch CID, Chennai, K. Saraswathi, Inspector of Police, CBCID, The Nilgiris, S. Lakshmi, Inspector of Police, CBCID, Tiruchi, G. Batharunissa Begum, Inspector of Police, Crime Record Bureau, Tirupur, K. Gopal, Inspector of Police, DVAC, Chennai, C. Lakshmi, Inspector of Police, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai, S. Malathi, Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Wing, Chennai, N. Sathuragiri, Sub-Inspector of Police, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai, R. SenthilKumar, Sub-Inspector of Police, Special Branch Tiruchi, and S. Baskar, Sub-Inspector of Police, Intelligence Section, Chennai.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.