Will have to examine if revolt by Shiv Sena MLAs in 2022 can be treated as party split, says SC

HC sets aside order refusing FCRA renewal of NGOs over claims of funding protests against Adani port

Saudi defence pact with Turkey and Pakistan is a verdict on American reliability

New India Foundation is accepting applications for book fellowships worth Rs 18 lakhs

Nisha da Cunha (1934-2026): An inspirational teacher and writer of things usually left unsaid

From the biography: How mathematician DD Kosambi envisioned higher education in science in India

What the Bar Council’s bid to curb NALSAR students says about university autonomy

Green India Mission fell short by nearly 98% in increasing forest cover: CAG

The Census 2027 will ask respondents if they belong to a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, and will also include an open-ended question for other communities about the caste that they belong to.

This will be the first time in independent India that caste will be enumerated across communities. Until now, Census exercises only recorded the population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.

Among the 40 questions notified on Friday are also those seeking information on the place where respondents received their Covid-19 vaccination, the total number of bank accounts they hold and digital literacy. The form also seeks information on Aadhaar numbers, mobile numbers, passport numbers and voter IDs.

The population enumeration phase of the census will take place from September 1 to September 30 in Ladakh and snow-bound non-synchronous areas of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, according to a gazette notification issued earlier this month. The online self-enumeration window for the second phase will be open from August 17 to August 31.

It will be conducted in other parts of the country in February 2027.

Scroll had reported on July 20 that during a trial for the second phase of the census, the government tested an open column to collect caste details from respondents other than those belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Instead of a fixed list or boxes to tick, the form had a blank space for respondents to write down their caste.

The pre-test for the second phase of Census 2027 was conducted from July 1 to July 20 in 16 states and Union Territories.

The last decennial census exercise was held in 2011. In 2020, India was set to begin the first phase of the exercise – in which housing data is collected – but it had to be delayed as the Covid-19 pandemic hit.

India had last conducted an exercise to count the population of all caste groups in 1931.

The Opposition had been demanding a nationwide caste census. The proponents of such an exercise argue that it will help identify the true population of the country’s Other Backward Classes and other castes, in turn paving the way for policies such as expanded quotas in jobs and education.