The last known US strikes on Iran were in late July, as the war has reached a stalemate in recent weeks, with Washington threatening to impose costly sanctions on countries that support Iran.

WASHINGTON: US forces struck two Iranian launchers on Iran's Larak Island on Sunday (Aug 30), a US official said, marking the first known American strikes on Iran since late July.

"I can confirm that earlier today US forces struck two Iranian launchers on Larak Island. Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps forces were observed preparing to launch rockets with sea mines into Strait of Hormuz," the US official said.

Iran's Revolutionary Guards said the attack killed and wounded several soldiers and citizens and would be met with a "response and punishment" from Tehran, Iranian state media reported.

Iran's semi-official Tasnim news agency reported the US carried out a drone strike on the island.

US President Donald Trump ​said last week that all mines ‌had been detonated or removed from the international waters of the Strait of Hormuz, and Iran has been told that any ship ​or boat placing new mines will be ​destroyed.

The last known US strikes on Iran were in late July, as the war has reached a stalemate in recent weeks with Washington threatening to impose costly sanctions on countries that support Iran.

The US and Israel attacked Iran on Feb 28, and Iran responded with its own strikes on Israel and Gulf states that host US bases. The Iran war has now crossed its six-month mark.

US-Israeli strikes on Iran and Israeli attacks on Lebanon have killed thousands and displaced millions. Eighteen US service members have been killed in the conflict.

The war has led to the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz, which before the conflict used to see the transit of about a fifth of the world's oil barrels.

Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox

Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories

Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app

We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.

To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.