Attack was response to Islamic ⁠Revolutionary Guard Corps preparing rockets to launch sea mines into strait, says US

US forces have struck two Iranian launchers on Iran’s Larak island on Sunday, a US official said, marking the ⁠first known American strikes since late July.

“I can confirm that earlier today US forces struck two Iranian launchers on Larak island. Islamic ⁠Revolutionary Guard Corps forces were observed preparing to launch rockets with sea mines into the strait of Hormuz,” the official said.

Iran’s ⁠Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said the attack killed and wounded several soldiers and citizens and ​would be met with a “response ‌and punishment” from ‌Tehran, Iranian state media reported.

A spokesperson said the US would pay for the attack on both economic and military fronts, according to the semi-official news agency Fars.

Iran’s semi-official Tasnim news agency reported the US had carried out ‌a drone strike on the island.

Late on Sunday night, Reuters reported a US source as saying Iran had launched an attack on US forces in Jordan in apparent retaliation, with the source adding that all incoming missiles had been intercepted with no significant impact so far.

The US president, Donald Trump, said last week that all mines had been detonated or removed from the international waters of the strait of Hormuz and Iran had been told that any ship or boat placing new mines will be destroyed.

The last known ‌US strikes on Iran were in late July and the war has reached a stalemate in recent weeks, with Washington threatening ​to impose costly sanctions on countries that support Iran.

The US and Israel attacked Iran on 28 February and Iran responded with its own strikes on Israel and Gulf states that host US bases. The Iran war has now ⁠crossed its six-month mark.

US-Israeli strikes on Iran and Israeli attacks on ​Lebanon have killed thousands ​and displaced millions. Eighteen US service ​members have been killed in the conflict.

The war has ​led to the ‌blockade of the ​strait of ​Hormuz, which before the conflict accounted for the transit of about a fifth of the world’s oil barrels consumed.