Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Uzbekistan's President Shavkat Mirziyoyev (R) shakes hands with India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi (L) during their meeting in Tashkent. | Photo Credit: AFP

Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on Sunday (August 30, 2026) conferred with Uzbekistan’s prestigious ‘Oliy Darajali Do’stlik’ Order, which he dedicated to the “enduring” bond between India and Uzbekistan.

This marks the 36th honorary award that has been conferred upon PM Modi since 2016.

The state honours conferred upon PM Modi are showed in the graphic below.

India and Uzbekistan on Sunday (August 30, 2026) decided to elevate their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and set a target of $5 billion in annual trade by 2030 following talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev.

The two sides inked 11 agreements for boosting engagement in several key sectors, including mining and tourism, and agreed to establish a framework for long-term supply of Uranium from Uzbekistan to India in line with cooperation in the civil nuclear energy sector.

The two sides also set a target of $5 billion in annual bilateral trade by 2030, Mr. Modi said in his press statement. The current volume of bilateral trade between the two nations is over $1 billion.

Infographics / Narendra Modi / award and prize / Indonesia / Seychelles / India / diplomacy

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.