Russian drones hit a Kryvyi Rig shopping centre, killing 14 people and injuring 121, as Ukraine urges allies to step up pressure on Moscow.

KYIV: Russian drones slammed into a busy shopping centre in eastern Ukraine Friday (Aug 21), killing 14 people in an attack condemned as "cynical and despicable" by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

The attack on Kryvyi Rig, Zelenskyy's hometown, comes as Russia has intensified its bombardments of Ukrainian cities in recent months.

Four more people, including three minors, were killed in another strike in the southern Mykolaiv region, Interior Minister Ivan Vygivsky said on Telegram.

Videos on social media of the Kryvyi Rig incident showed rescuers rushing to help the wounded on the street outside, as smoke poured out of the building.

A second drone smashed into the roof of the building around half an hour after the first - a repeat strike that Zelenskyy said in a post on X was "targeting the emergency responders".

Oleksandr Ganzha, head of the Dnipropetrovsk regional military administration, said the drone strikes had triggered fires in the shopping centre and killed 14 people, wounding 121 others.

Zelenskyy in his X post condemned "an absolutely cynical and despicable strike... carried out by the Russians against an ordinary shopping center".

Kryvyi Rig, an industrial city roughly 60 kilometres from the front line, has come under repeated Russian attacks throughout the war.

The United Nations reported that the civilian death toll in 2026 had risen to its highest level since the first months of the war.

Ukraine's allies are to meet on Monday to reaffirm their support for Kyiv in talks held on the country's independence day.

The meeting of the Coalition of the Willing will be co-chaired by French President Emmanuel Macron - joining via video link - German Chancellor Friedrich Merz and the new British Prime Minister Andy Burnham.

Around 10 leaders including European Council chief Antonio Costa will be in Kyiv for the coalition meeting, according to an EU official.

"The world must respond to them accordingly - with real pressure on the aggressor. For peace to be possible, Russia must face real accountability," he said.

Zelenskyy held a call with UN chief Antonio Guterres on Friday, updating him on Russian strikes and the civilian casualties they have caused, the Ukrainian leader said on X.

Kyiv has repeatedly appealed to its allies for additional support as Russia steps up its strikes, with Ukrainian forces struggling in particular to intercept salvos of ballistic missiles.

Ukraine has also escalated retaliatory strikes on Russia in recent months, in part to try to pressure Moscow into coming to the negotiating table to end Europe's deadliest conflict since World War II.

Diplomatic efforts have failed to move the two sides towards a deal, with Russia demanding sweeping territorial and political concessions from Kyiv.

Zelenskyy has ruled out agreeing to those terms, viewing it as an effective capitulation that would leave his country dangerously exposed to another Russian attack.

Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox

Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories

Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app

We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.

To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.