Ashoka University and Oxford’s Balliol College announce a new £10,000 prize in creative nonfiction

How a bureaucrat has forced Maharashtra’s eateries and other food businesses to clean up their act

BJP’s unpopularity might be growing – but destruction of Opposition gives it breathing space

Fiction by Nobel laureate Louise Glück: A novella about twin sisters’ first year in the world

‘Court can’t decide if Savarkar was brave’: Researcher asks HC to halt trial against Rahul Gandhi

Why Gen Alpha protests show India’s official school data is unreliable

‘Deeply troubling’: Pinarayi Vijayan asks why Census has questions on parents’ religion, birthplace

Cats were domesticated thousands of years ago. Are they finally getting tamer?

BJP MLA alleges she faced caste discrimination at Uttar Pradesh temple event

Pakistan’s former Prime Minister Imran Khan was on Friday shifted back to prison after a brief visit to an Islamabad hospital, Information Minister Attaullah Tarar said.

He had been taken to the hospital for a medical examination in compliance with an order by the country’s Supreme Court.

On Tuesday, the court had directed the authorities to take Khan to hospital within 48 hours. He was expected to remain in hospital till September 16, according to the order.

However, he was shifted back to Adiala jail on Friday itself.

The court’s directive had met a longstanding demand by Khan’s party and his family who have been raising concerns about his health and poor incarceration conditions.

Khan’s son Kasim had said in February that the family has been informed that the former prime minister has “lost most of the vision in his right eye, with reports indicating only 15% eyesight remains”.

Khan, founder of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, was taken to the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences instead of a private health facility because of a “security situation created by [his party] workers”, Tarar claimed on social media.

The 73-year-old cricketer-turned-politician was arrested in August 2023 and has been in Rawalpindi’s Adiala jail since September 2023. He is facing several criminal cases, mostly linked to alleged corruption.

The Supreme Court order came after a medical board report submitted to the court recommended frequent meetings between Khan and his family to help manage his anxiety and blood pressure.

The court also granted Khan’s personal physician permission to meet the former prime minister. However, it directed Khan’s family and lawyers not to share his medical report with the public.

Additional Attorney General Aamir Rehman, representing the government, opposed the court order. He said at the time that no notice had been issued to the government and that Khan could not be shifted to hospital immediately.

Khan formed the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party in 1996 after retiring from the sport and served as the prime minister between August 2018 and April 2022. His government collapsed after his relations with the Pakistani military leadership deteriorated.

In January 2025, a court sentenced Khan to 14 years of imprisonment and his wife Bushra Bibi to seven years after finding them guilty in a corruption case.

Amnesty International had in December urged the Pakistani authorities to “immediately restore” Khan’s access to his family and legal counsel in line with international human rights law.

This came less than a week after the United Nations’ special rapporteur on torture called on the Pakistani government to take immediate steps to address reports of “inhumane and undignified detention conditions” of Khan.

The special rapporteur warned that the conditions Khan was reportedly living in “could amount to torture”.

Khan’s friends from across the world, including former Indian cricketers, have been urging the authorities in Pakistan to treaty him with dignity.

Written by Edited by Tanya Shrivastava. Edited by Nachiket Deuskar.

Also read: In Pakistan, Prisoner No 804 seems to be everywhere