The United Kingdom, Australia and Canada have called Israel’s decision not to pursue a criminal investigation into its deadly strike on a World Central Kitchen aid convoy in Gaza “shameful”.

In a joint statement released on Friday, the three countries’ foreign ministries called on Israel to comply with international humanitarian law, saying they had spent more than two years pressing Israel to hold those responsible for the drone strike in central Gaza accountable.

“This decision is both too little, and too late. The victims of this incident and their families deserve justice and accountability, and we will continue to seek answers on their behalf,” the statement said.

Seven World Central Kitchen aid workers – three Britons, a dual US-Canadian national, a Pole, an Australian, and a Palestinian – were killed in their convoy after overseeing a food aid shipment in April 2024.

In a separate statement on Friday, Poland’s foreign ‌ministry said it was “very disappointed” in Israel’s decision to not investigate the drone strike.

The ministry also said that it has summoned Israel’s ambassador ⁠in Warsaw after the Israeli military made the announcement. Australia also summoned Israel’s ambassador in Canberra on Thursday.

Israel’s military called the deadly strike a “tragic mistake”.

But it announced on Wednesday that it would not launch investigations into the attack that killed the aid workers from the celebrity chef Jose Andres’ ⁠World Central Kitchen.

The announcement came after a review of 150 incidents of Israeli troop conduct during its genocidal war on Gaza, including the killing of Hind Rajab, a five-year-old Palestinian child.

The Israeli strike on World Central Kitchen employees in April 2024 sparked global outrage and triggered calls to protect the safety of aid workers in Gaza.

The statement by the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada also said Israel announcing its decision on August 19, World Humanitarian Day, “while the world honoured the courage and sacrifice of humanitarians, was particularly egregious”.

The US-based World Central Kitchen on Wednesday called Israel’s decision “inconsistent with the truth” and demanded an independent investigation into the airstrikes “because the [Israeli army] cannot credibly investigate its own conduct.”

UK minister for the Middle East Stephen Doughty said his government “will continue to push for urgent answers”.