The Delhi Police on Friday registered a First Information Report (FIR) over a complaint alleging the use of pellet guns during Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) protests in Delhi on 20 July. The complaint was filed by Sahil Lochav, who was allegedly injured in the pellet firing. Lochav had earlier claimed that despite his complaint, no FIR had been registered.

ANI sources had earlier said the police were assessing the complaint to determine whether a fresh case could be lodged in compliance with the Supreme Court’s directions.

Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi ended his sit-in protest after the FIR was filed. He said FIR over pellet injury marks the first step towards justice, adding that pellet gun victim’s FIR after hours of protest highlights the struggle for justice, as per PTI.

The FIR has been lodged in the Lochav case under Sections 118(1) (voluntarily causing hurt using dangerous weapons) and 125 (rash or negligent act that endangers human life).

Meanwhile, Gandhi had earlier in the day visited the Parliament Street police station and staged a sit-in, demanding that an FIR be registered on Lochav’s complaint.

"A pellet gun was used at Connaught Place on 20 July. The AIIMS report clearly says that there are more than 200 shells inside his body and 3 in his eye. He has lost vision in that eye. There are shells near his heart that cannot be touched. Delhi Police say they did not fire pellet guns. So, there is just one question: someone must have done it...A crime has indeed happened," he said.

"We are demanding that an FIR be registered. They told us that they have received an order from the top and they cannot file an FIR. We won't budge from here until an FIR is registered...All we demand is justice for this family...In this country, Amit Shah's Home Ministry and Delhi Police personnel won't let justice happen," he added.

Congress members gathered outside the Parliament Street Police Station in support of the party's demand.

Union Minister JP Nadda on Friday criticised Gandhi for staging the protest outside the Parliament Street Police Station, saying the Supreme Court has already taken cognisance of the 20 July incident and set up a five-member high-powered committee headed by a former judge.

Nadda accused Gandhi of engaging in a "camera-centric drama merely to keep himself in the headlines" and alleged that the Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha was resorting to "cheap, attention-seeking politics" outside the Sansad Marg police station.

He further claimed that Gandhi’s sit-in was neither aimed at supporting students nor intended to seek justice.

"The entire nation is once again witnessing the kind of cheap, attention-seeking politics that Rahul Gandhi displayed today outside the Sansad Marg police station. Rahul Gandhi's sit-in protest today is neither for the students nor for the sake of justice; it is a symbol of the Congress party's political desperation and Rahul Gandhi's hunger for media attention," he said.

"The whole country knows that the Supreme Court has already taken cognisance of the 20 July incident and has constituted a five-member high-powered committee headed by a former judge. When the country's apex court is investigating the matter, what does Rahul Gandhi hope to prove by sitting in front of cameras outside the police station? Does the Leader of the Opposition lack faith in the country's judiciary? The truth is that Rahul Gandhi is staging this 'camera-centric' drama merely to keep himself in the headlines," he added.

The BJP leader alleged that the "drama" is related to the "criticism Congress is facing on the 'Vande Matram' issue and Rahul Gandhi is seeking to divert attention.

"If we consider the timing of this entire drama, we realise that the Congress party is currently facing intense criticism across the nation over the issue of 'Vande Mataram'. The public is demanding answers from the Congress regarding the disrespect shown to the national song, especially as a senior Congress leader was seen cutting a cake designed to look like the Tricolour," he said.

"To conceal this anti-national face of his and to divert attention from the massive embarrassment he has faced, Rahul Gandhi has hastily orchestrated this new drama as a distraction," he added.

Pellet gun shelling victim Sahil Lochav said at Parliament Street Police Station that the FIR has not been filed on his complaint.

"On 20 July, pellet guns were fired at me. I was admitted to Lady Hardinge, and from there, I was referred to AIIMS. I underwent surgery at AIIMS. But the vision in my eye is still not clear. On 14 August, I wrote a 7-page complaint and gave it to my lawyer...But the FIR has not been registered," he said.

Congress leader Jairam Ramesh earlier said that the party has a simple demand that an FIR should be registered.

"Our demand is simple - register an FIR and give us the FIR number. Sahil has made a genuine demand that an FIR should be registered. LoP Rahul 