Senate minority leader condemns Republicans after Donald Trump’s former defense lawyer confirmed by 50 votes to 49 early on Saturday morning. This blog is now closed.

The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has said Senate Republicans have “handed Trump an excuse on a silver platter” to continue his “pervasive, breathtaking corruption” by confirming Todd Blanche as attorney general

“If you want to wipe out corruption, you can’t have the president’s personal attorney as the attorney general. You don’t need a PhD in political science to know that,” he wrote in a post on X.

“Todd Blanche has no intention of stopping Trump’s corruption. He advanced his career enabling it. Every senator who voted to confirm him has now branded themselves as an enabler, too.”

Schumer said Senate Democrats will continue to resist the Trump administration’s “assault on the rule of law and undermining of democratic values”.

All Democrats voted against Blanche’s nomination to lead the Justice Department on a permanent basis, with a wide spectrum of lawmakers saying he was unfit for the role and would do the president’s bidding.

We’re wrapping our live politics coverage for the day. Here’s the top political news:

The US Senate confirmed Todd Blanche as attorney general. Blanche, who was deputy attorney general prior to former AG Pam Bondi’s ouster, previously served as Donald Trump’s criminal defense attorney. Blanche won the confirmation by a 50-49 vote early Saturday morning. Just two Republican senators, Maine’s Susan Collins and Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski, voted against him.

Blanche was confirmed despite facing intense criticism for his handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files. Remember: Trump’s Department of Justice was required by bipartisan legislation to disclose all files related to Epstein by 19 December, with redactions only in extremely limited circumstances. While some files were disclosed on this deadline, many were released after the congressionally mandated cutoff. Blanche’s rollout has also been criticized for redacting information that should have been public–-while disclosing survivors’ names.

US Senators started their five-week recess this morning after handing Trump a major win with Blanche’s confirmation. But, GOP senators managed to go on recess without meeting some of Trump’s demands--including passage of the Save America Act. This proposed legislation would restrict voting across the US. Trump had pushed for senators to postpone their recess to green-light this act, but they reportedly told Trump portions of it would be included in a Republican budget package.

It’s not just Blanche--dozens of Trump nominees were confirmed by the Senate early Saturday morning. Senate Republicans pushed through a resolution confirming more than 70 Trump picks for role such as ambassadors, judges, and US attorneys.

Among the early morning votes pushed through the US Senate by Republicans before dawn was a resolution to confirm a slate of 71 of Donald Trump’s picks to serve in a variety of roles, including as ambassadors, US attorneys, judges and senior staff at federal agencies.

One of the nominees confirmed this way was P Wells Griffith, a former Republican campaign operative and Trump aide who was the senior director for international energy and environment on the National Security Council in 2019.

As of today, Griffith is now a US ambassador, representing the United States at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. The IAEA played a key role in verifying Iran’s compliance with the nuclear deal negotiated during the Obama administration, which Trump withdrew from during his first term, and could be similarly important should a new nuclear deal with Iran be struck by the Trump administration.

During the impeachment inquiry over Trump’s pressure campaign against Ukraine in 2019, Fiona Hill, the NSC’s Russia expert during Trump’s first term, testified that Griffith was present at a July 2019 meeting with Ukrainian officials in which John Bolton, then Trump’s national security adviser, discovered that other US officials had secretly pressed Ukraine to open a sham investigation of Joe Biden.

Griffith refused to testify to the House impeachment inquiry, defying a subpoena.

Pete Buttigieg called for unity among Democrats on Friday during a rally in Michigan, saying “the stakes are high, and people from around the country, people from around the world, are watching” to see if Democrats can win the swing state.

Buttigieg’s remarks, reported by Politico, came during a planned event that involved Michigan’s statewide Democratic ticket. Buttigieg ran for president in 2020 and is considered a possible Democratic contender for 2028.

Michigan Democrats must hold onto their Senate seat if Democrats want to regain control of the Senate. And while Michigan has long been a battleground state, residents voted for Donald Trump in the last two elections, Politico noted.

“We’re going to win because we know what it means to f