We are getting a bit more detail on the deal as signed by the three leaders just now.

In a big win for Denmark and Greenland, it includes a specific explicit provision on “reaffirming the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Denmark, and recognising that the People of Greenland constitute a people pursuant to international law with the right to self-determination.”

The US will “modernise and expand its activities in Pituffik Space Base,” – that’s the base visited by JD Vance last year – and establish military bases in Narsarsuaq (it already had a military base there in the 50s) and in Mestersvig, “in accordance with modalities and technical details to be mutually agreed by the parties.”

“The United States may establish additional defence areas in Greenland and strengthen its military operations or facilities,” the text says.

US aircraft may also “fly over and land in any territory in Greenland,” the agreement stipulates, including the territorial waters.

Denmark and Greenland also agreed to “review requests to establish unmanned military installations in Greenland outside of the defence areas under accelerated governmental approval procedures.”

In what Trump touted as his win, the agreement is explicit in what was anyway believed to be true already when it says that “no state that is not a member of Nato shall be allowed to establish its own manned or unmanned military installations in Greenland nor shall they be allowed a persistent presence of military forces in Greenland, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties.”

There is also a further provision that any investment from a non-Nato member of partner country should not be allowed to “have control, significant influence or access to non-public information that may constitute a threat to national security or public order.”

This paragraph will be seen by the US as an attempt to fend off any interest from China or Russia. A different part of the deal also talks about working together to counter the threat of espionage.

The agreement has no end date, and curiously considers potentially relevant future scenarios, such as Greenland’s independence in the future.

It says the independent Greenland would need to “agree to remain in Nato” and continue all arrangements as agreed in the treaty.

For continued coverage of the UN general assembly week and tonight’s meeting between the US president, Donald Trump, and Ukraine’s Volodymyr Zelenskyy, join my US colleagues over here:

Trump is also meeting with UK’s Andy Burnham right now, and that is being covered by my UK colleagues here:

Meanwhile, here is the summary of the key events in Europe today:

Denmark and Greenland have signed a new security deal for Greenland with the US, hoping to end months of bitter disputes over US president Donald Trump’s expansive plans to acquire or otherwise control the territory (17:32, 17:36, 17:39, 17:49, 18:00, 18:02, 18:11, 18:29).

Earlier Trump hailed the deal as “an unprecedented agreement” which he said would “also protect Europe in addition to America” (16:57), as he praised Nato as “growing stronger than ever before” (16:59).

The US president also said his message to Russia’s president Vladimir Putin would be to “settle the war” (15:44), as he repeated his ambition would be to end the conflict soon (16:49, 17:00).

The EU has agreed to remove two Russian billionaires, Alisher Usmanov and Mikhail Fridman, from its Russia sanctions list, while extending restrictions on nearly 3,000 individuals and companies accused of supporting the war on Ukraine for the next three years (11:15, 16:13, 17:02, 17:24, 18:17).

The decision was heavily criticised by Ukraine, which called it unacceptable and “shameful” (18:18), after previously backing the main opposing country – Latvia – in its fight to block the delisting (16:15).

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Germany’s embattled chancellor Friedrich Merz, who is absent from New York this week as he is trying to deal with his multiple crises at home (16:08), has joined in the chorus of voices welcoming the new deal between the US, Denmark and Greenland.

“Good news for the security of Greenland: The agreement between Denmark, Greenland, and the USA strengthens our partnership in Nato and security in the High North. Our partners can count on the support of Germany.”

“I congratulate PM Frederikssen [sic!] @statsmin and PM Nielsen of Greenland for the agreement reached with the United States to strengthen security in the Arctic and the North Atlantic.

It is a positive step for transatlantic cooperation and Arctic security, grounded in respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and the right of the Greenlandic people to self-determination.

The EU stands ready to continue working closely with Greenland, Denmark and our transatlantic partners for a peaceful, secure and prosperous Arct