Journalist Ravi Nair to remain in jail as Gujarat HC gives Adani more time to respond to his plea

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

‘Srishti’s crime is empathy’: Who is the young artist jailed for supporting Noida workers’ protest?

Ghaziabad ‘love jihad’ case: Family can’t decide who an adult chooses as life partner, says HC

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Tavleen Singh’s debut novel: An actor joins a political party committed to the ideals of secularism

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

‘I learn not to carry the hurt / like a loaded gun’: These poems are diverse manifestations of home

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice on a plea raising questions about the manner in which the special intensive revision of electoral rolls was being carried out in Delhi, Bar and Bench reported.

It observed that voters needed clarity when they were being served notices for “logical discrepancies”.

A bench headed by Chief Justice Surya Kant took note of concerns that the notices issued to voters in the “doubtful” list did not provide sufficient reasons or details.

The petitioners said that more than 33 lakh voters in Delhi had been sent notices on “flimsy reasons”, Live Law reported.

During the hearing on Tuesday, Justice Joymalya Bagchi verbally observed that the notices appeared to have been issued “almost mechanically”, Bar and Bench reported.

“In all probability, they are machine-generated notices,” he was quoted as saying, asking the counsel representing the Election Commission to examine whether additional filters were necessary.

Kant said that there was room to clarify what information was being sought from the voters in cases of “logical discrepancies” marked against them in the notices, the legal news outlet reported.

Logical discrepancies refer to what the poll panel considers as inconsistencies, or a mismatch in the name of the voters’ parents, a low age gap with parents and the number of children of the parents being more than six.

The court said that there was a need for the booth-level officers to be sensitised so that they assist the voters who have been served notices, Bar and Bench reported. It also suggested that the poll panel publish in newspapers answers to frequently asked questions about the voter list revision exercise.

The bench also took note of Election Commission’s submission that there was time to correct any lapses in the process as no polls were scheduled in the national capital in the near future, the legal news outlet reported.

Delhi is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of SIR.

Election Commissioner SS Sandhu, Delhi Chief Minister Rekha Gupta and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal were among the 33 lakh voters for whom notices had been generated.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

During the third phase, more than six crore names have been deleted from draft lists.

Since the exercise began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.