Journalist Ravi Nair to remain in jail as Gujarat HC gives Adani more time to respond to his plea

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

‘Srishti’s crime is empathy’: Who is the young artist jailed for supporting Noida workers’ protest?

Ghaziabad ‘love jihad’ case: Family can’t decide who an adult chooses as life partner, says HC

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Tavleen Singh’s debut novel: An actor joins a political party committed to the ideals of secularism

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

‘I learn not to carry the hurt / like a loaded gun’: These poems are diverse manifestations of home

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

The names of more than 17.6 lakh persons were deleted from Odisha’s final voter list published on Monday following the special intensive revision of electoral rolls, The Hindu quoted the state Election Commission as saying.

The voters in the state reduced to 3.16 crore from 3.33 crore before the exercise began, a decrease of about 5.2%.

Odisha is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of SIR.

On Monday, Chief Electoral Officer RS Gopalan said that 3.1 crore enumeration forms were received from voters. This accounted for 93.9% of the total electorate.

More than 20 lakh voters whose forms were not received had been excluded from the draft list published in July. Among the excluded voters, 8.3 lakh had been marked as deceased, 2 lakh as absent, 8.1 lakh as having shifted and 1.6 lakh as duplicate entries.

Voters filed claims and objections against their exclusion between July 5 and August 19. About 2.5 lakh appeals were received and processed before the final roll was prepared, The Hindu cited data from the chief electoral officer as having shown.

After the hearings, more than 24,000 voters were found ineligible for inclusion in the final roll. More than 20,700 names were deleted based on applications objecting to the inclusions or seeking their deletions, the poll panel said.

This took the deletions to 44,770 after the disposing of the claims, objections and other applications, Gopalan was quoted as saying.

Meanwhile, more than 2.9 lakh voters were added to the electoral roll following this stage of the exercise.

This meant a net addition of 2.4 lakh names to the draft roll.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

Since the exercise began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.