Journalist Ravi Nair to remain in jail as Gujarat HC gives Adani more time to respond to his plea

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

‘Srishti’s crime is empathy’: Who is the young artist jailed for supporting Noida workers’ protest?

Ghaziabad ‘love jihad’ case: Family can’t decide who an adult chooses as life partner, says HC

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Tavleen Singh’s debut novel: An actor joins a political party committed to the ideals of secularism

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

‘I learn not to carry the hurt / like a loaded gun’: These poems are diverse manifestations of home

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

Congress chief Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said that the special intensive revision of electoral rolls was a “flawed process” that was hurting even Bharatiya Janata Party leaders.

“SIR is not just a tool used by the BJP for vote theft and dismantling democracy – it’s a flawed process that has turned into a Frankenstein Monster, now trapping its own people!” he said.

“…perhaps now the powers-that-be are realising” why the Congress has been describing the process as flawed, added the MP.

Kharge said that several BJP leaders, including former Deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, besides Rajya Sabha MPs, a former Union minister and an ex-chief minister, had been served notices by the Election Commission to prove their eligibility to vote.

“The situation is such that even a Bharat Ratna-awardee scientist and former Navy chief had already been issued notices earlier,” the Congress leader said, referring to CNR Rao and Admiral Arun Prakash (Retired).

On Sunday, it was reported that Election Commissioner SS Sandhu, Delhi Chief Minister Rekha Gupta and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal were among the 33 lakh electors in the national capital for whom notices had been generated.

Former Vice President Jagdeep Dhankhar and ex-Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B Lokur were also reportedly served the notice.

Kharge said on Monday that in Bengal, “among those whose names were deleted to prevent them from voting”, 93% of the appeals decided by the tribunals resulted in the inclusion of voters in the electoral rolls.

“On what basis was their voting right stripped away?” he asked.

Kharge said that the Election Commission had issued a press release using the phrase “VIP/marked” electors. “Is there now some special category of voters in India’s universal adult franchise – VIP voters and ordinary voters?” he asked.

“Isn’t this a violation of the constitutional principle of one person, one vote, one value?” the Congress leader further asked. “Has the VIP vote become more valuable now?”

The Opposition leader said that 13.8 crore voters had been removed from the voter lists of 31 states and Union Territories so far. This accounts for 14.6% of India’s 94.7 crore voters before the exercise began in 2025.

The claims and objections against exclusions from the draft voter list as part of the third SIR phase in 19 states and Union Territories are underway. Final electoral rolls in these states will be published in October and November.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

During the third phase, more than six crore names have been deleted from draft lists.

Since the exercise began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.