Journalist Ravi Nair to remain in jail as Gujarat HC gives Adani more time to respond to his plea

Italy plans to ban burqas in schools, limit foreign students per class

‘Srishti’s crime is empathy’: Who is the young artist jailed for supporting Noida workers’ protest?

Ghaziabad ‘love jihad’ case: Family can’t decide who an adult chooses as life partner, says HC

Court sets aside order refusing FIR against Sonia Gandhi for ‘forgery’ in her voter list inclusion

Tavleen Singh’s debut novel: An actor joins a political party committed to the ideals of secularism

Chhattisgarh: 19 Bengali workers detained on suspicion of being undocumented Bangladeshis released

‘I learn not to carry the hurt / like a loaded gun’: These poems are diverse manifestations of home

Indian writer Ruthvika Rao wins £10,000 Wilbur Smith Adventure Writing Prize for ‘The Fertile Earth’

Canada’s overqualified immigrants suffer at work but companies pay the price too

The names of more than 1.5 lakh persons were removed from the draft voter list of Nagaland published on Sunday as part of the special intensive revision of electoral rolls, PTI reported.

The state had 11.9 lakh voters in the draft roll as compared to the 13.5 lakh before the exercise began in August, the news agency reported. The names not included in the draft roll account for 11.7% of the state’s electorate.

While 1.2 lakh voters have been marked as permanently shifted or absent, more than 29,940 had died. Over 5,000 names were duplicate entries, the Election Commission said.

The claims and objections by voters against their removal from the draft list can be filed between September 20 and October 20. The appeals will be heard by November 18, before the final electoral roll is published on November 22.

Nagaland is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of SIR.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

During the third phase, more than six crore names have been deleted from draft lists.

Since the exercise began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.