The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) is "very, very close" to taking power in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, its deputy parliamentary leader has told the BBC, after a historic victory in elections there.

Sunday's preliminary results show it fell three seats short of an outright majority, with 43.8% of the vote. It is now seeking support from other parties or individuals in order to govern.

While most German political parties refuse to work with the AfD, Beatrix von Storch called for its opponents to enter talks and said: "You cannot say, I do not accept the vote of the people".

Germany's Chancellor Friedrich Merz said he was "deeply shocked" by the result, describing it as "seismic... not just in the country but also in my own political party and I take that very seriously".

His party, the conservative CDU, saw its share of the vote almost halved to 17.2% in the state's preliminary results.

Merz said it was not possible to return to "business as usual", adding that the country needed "profound reforms" and the CDU needed to "reach people at an emotional level".

No far-right party has controlled a German state since World War Two, and governing at state level would mean powers over policing and local education.

Von Storch said the state's results "were on the table and now democrats have to talk to [one] another. This is what democracy demands".

She added that if parties refused to work with the AfD, "then we might end up in severe chaos and maybe we have a new election".

Her comments were echoed by AfD's leader in Saxony-Anhalt, Ulrich Siegmund, who told a news conference on Monday that the party had won a "clear mandate to govern".

The state's defeated premier, the CDU's Sven Schulze, also said the mandate to govern Saxony-Anhalt "now lies with the AfD".

Saxony-Anhalt has a small population of 2.1 million and the AfD in the state is assessed by domestic intelligence as "right-wing extremist", a classification rejected by Siegmund, 35.

The party's plans for Saxony-Anhalt, which include segregating child refugees into special classes and setting up a task-force to help detain and deport migrants who no longer have the right to be in the state, are highly controversial within Germany.

The AfD is currently heading for 39 seats in the 83-seat state parliament instead of the 42 needed for an outright majority, although the result has not yet been finalised.

Von Storch told the BBC the AfD was talking to individuals within the CDU group - the largest party in both the state's outgoing coalition and Germany's government - because they were "very, very unhappy with their own party".

One idea being floated is an informal deal whereby a small party - the BSW - could give their tacit support to allow the AfD to form a minority government.

The left-wing populist BSW, which is set to win five seats, is also tough on immigration and backs importing Russian gas.

Siegmund said discussions with other parties were initiated on Sunday night and could potentially take days or weeks to conclude.

"We reach out to everybody first, we will have consultations and then we'll see whether [there are] individual parliamentary groups or MPs who would be willing to help us," he added.

Another possibility - at least in theory - is a messy, minority coalition government led by the conservative CDU party. But that appears very unlikely.

There's also the prospect of another election to break the deadlock - an idea which has been mooted by Siegmund who has said he doesn't want to compromise on his policy goals.

The AfD leads the opinion polls nationally, ahead of the ruling conservatives of Merz and the Social Democrats, but their heartland lies in the eastern states.

They also won the 2024 state election in neighbouring Thuringia, but failed to secure enough seats to win power.

Merz described the Saxony-Anhalt defeat as the worst the CDU had suffered "in years, if not decades", acknowledging that the results in upcoming regional elections in Mecklenburg–Western Pomerania and Berlin could have "increasing significance".

Among the AfD's policies is a highly controversial plan for "remigration", which is widely understood to mean mass deportations of migrants, although the party says it refers to deporting criminals and those in the country illegally.

Commentators and political opponents called AfD's victory a watershed and break with the past.

"This isn't just about Saxony-Anhalt," Siegmund told supporters overnight. "It's a signal for the whole of Germany - a self-confident signal."

On Sunday, US President Donald Trump posted a screenshot of the state's projected results on his Truth Social platform. Russian presidential envoy Kirill Dmitriev then took a screengrab of Trump's post and praised a "historic win for the pragmatic AfD".

Dmitriev had earlier praised the Russia-friendly AfD as "the party of hope and reason, co-operation truth and hope for Germany". Ahead of Germany's federal election last ye