Good morning. You're reading the Up First newsletter. Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox, and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day.

The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating after a cargo plane crashed at Miami International Airport yesterday, killing five people and injuring five others. The Amazon Prime plane was landing at the airport around 2 p.m. ET when it overran the runway and crashed into vehicles on the ground. It remains unclear if the people who were hurt or killed were on the plane or on the ground at the time of the collision.

An Amazon cargo plane is seen after it crashed at Miami International Airport on Sunday in Miami, Florida. The Federal Aviation Administration said Prime Air Flight 7598 overran the runway while landing around 2 p.m. ET after departing from San Juan, Puerto Rico. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption

Trump administration envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner said their meetings with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv yesterday were "substantive." The envoys held extensive conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow the day before. Witkoff and Kushner want peace talks to resume, but the visit did not yield a breakthrough.

The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party has claimed a landslide victory in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt, narrowly missing an absolute majority to form the regional government. It is unclear whether AfD will govern the state yet, but this outcome is shaking Germany's political landscape. If the AfD forms a governing coalition, it would establish the first far-right regional government since Nazi Germany.

Living Better is a special series about what it takes to stay healthy in America.

Research suggests that about 50% of women going through the menopausal transition experience dry eye symptoms, including red, watery or gritty-feeling eyes. Hormonal changes play a significant role, but they aren't the only culprits — many other factors can contribute to this discomfort as well. Here's some of what you should know about the chronic condition:

Naomi Nibishaka crosses the bridge. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption

The bridge-building nonprofit Fika is connecting communities in Rwanda separated by rivers and gorges. Since 2020, the charity has built 96 bridges, and a new study shows that life in those areas looks very different now. People are able to access assets that were once hard to reach. Before the bridges, crossing options could be costly and dangerous. But now, people have better access to healthcare, schools and even post offices that were previously only on the other side of the crossing. See photos of some of the towns changed by these bridges and read more about their impact.

Zain Shafi prepares to put briskets in the smoker at Goldee's BBQ in Fort Worth, Texas. Fiona André/Religion News Service hide caption

NPR does not offer or accept money for coverage or interviews. Anyone who makes such an offer or request is not an NPR employee and does not represent NPR.