HC summons journalist Sudhir Chaudhary for allegedly defamatory show during youth protests

Remembering ‘Got Japan’: This book dissects upper-caste life in Himalayan towns in colonised India

‘Worthy of derision’: HC on Noida official order to detain 25-year-old activist under NSA

Ramachandra Guha: For 120 years, Indian students have fought to change politics and public life

In a first, Gauhati HC asks Assam government to pay Rs 2 lakh to woman pushed into Bangladesh

Why do people respond differently to mosquito bites? A scientist explains

For children: Amal goes to the gurudwara kitchen with his grandmother when the langar is cooked

As RSS chief Bhagwat’s UK plans are kept under wraps, protestors symbolically gather near Parliament

More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Rush Hour: Delhi building collapse toll rises to 7, court summons journalist Sudhir Chaudhary & more

The toll in the building collapse in Delhi’s Satya Niketan area rose to seven, even as search and rescue operations continued. Eleven persons have been rescued so far but 30 to 35 students are estimated to be trapped under the rubble.

The five-storey building, which was being used as paying guest accommodation for students, collapsed on Sunday afternoon. The police said that the structure was 40 to 50 years old. Repair work had been underway in the basement when the building caved in.

The owner of the building was arrested in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and negligence has been registered against him. Five municipal officials have been suspended. Read on.

The Delhi High Court summoned journalist Sudhir Chaudhary and public broadcaster Doordarshan News in a defamation case filed by a civil services aspirant who had attended the youth protests at Jantar Mantar in July. Vikram Sherawat, a volunteer with the Cockroach Janta Party political campaign, alleged that Chaudhary had described him as an “anti-national” in a show on July 27.

He alleged that Chaudhary had accused him of calling for the destruction of Parliament and creating a “Nepal-like situation” in India.

Sherawat has sought Rs 5 crore in damages from Chaudhary, his production company Essprit Productions and Doordarshan News. Read on.

The Supreme Court directed the Ghaziabad police commissioner to file an affidavit explaining what information it had sought from social media platform X about journalist Abhishek Upadhyay. He has claimed that a road-rage case was filed to harass him after he reported on the alleged embezzlement of donations at the Ram temple in Ayodhya.

In a petition against the first information report against him, Upadhyay has filed an application challenging a notice the Uttar Pradesh Police had issued to X seeking information about his social media account.

The counsel for Upadhyay has contended that the police were trying to find the identity of Upadhyay’s journalistic sources. In response, the bench asked why a person’s “digital footsteps” were needed in a road rage case. Read on.

A Delhi court rejected YouTuber Ajeet Bharti’s petition seeking anticipatory bail in a case pertaining to his allegedly derogatory and casteist remarks about Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram) MP Chandra Shekhar Aazad. The plea was not maintainable, held the bench.

The Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram) has alleged Bharti made “caste-based, abusive, humiliating, sexually degrading and potentially inflammatory statements” about the Nagina MP and BR Ambedkar in a video where he spoke about the anti-reservation protests held at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar in August. Read on.

If you haven’t already, sign up for our Daily Brief newsletter.