Cali, Colombia – At the University Hospital of the Valle Evaristo Garcia, health workers in blue scrubs moved briskly through the courtyard on Wednesday, beneath a white facade split by deep fissures.

The rear of the hospital – a major public medical centre in Colombia’s Cali – had partially collapsed on Monday, after a magnitude 7.4 earthquake struck the west of the country, killing at least 273 people and injuring at least 3,800 others. The National Unit for Disaster Risk Management said 377 people are still missing as the crucial three-day rescue window passes.

Carlos Naranjo, a general practitioner at the hospital, said some 50 percent of the facility was damaged. “There is extensive structural damage; some walls are no longer stable, some ceilings have collapsed, and it is still dangerous to walk through,” he told Al Jazeera.

With most of the hospital off-limits, medical staff now have to turn away the vast majority of patients. They are able to treat only those who require immediate resuscitation.

The facility is one of four major hospitals that were damaged and forced out of operation on Monday. Six clinics were also damaged. Amid an influx of injured people, city authorities on Monday warned that public hospitals in Cali, home to two million people, were at 100 percent capacity and declared a “red alert for hospitals” there.

Cali, Colombia’s third-largest city and the capital of the Valle del Cauca province in the Pacific region, is one of the worst-affected areas.

At least 96 died here, while 1,224 others were injured and 111 are officially missing. Authorities say some 45 buildings collapsed, while 832 suffered damage.

But on Wednesday – less than 72 hours into the crisis – a combination of effective organisation, plentiful volunteers, and support from the national government has led local health officials to describe the situation as stable.

The United Nations’ Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said on Wednesday that the “hospital system has stabilised as patients have been discharged and the number of new admissions has decreased”.

But “a red alert remains declared for hospitals in the city”, it said.

The city averted disaster despite the collapse of key health institutions by enacting a strategy to boost the capacity of the institutions less affected by the earthquake, officials said.

German Escobar, Cali’s public health secretary, told Al Jazeera that the city had implemented a plan to create “expansion zones”, largely in and around existing health institutions, to handle the surge in patients.

These include utilising operating rooms that were previously not in use and recovery areas – where patients go after surgery – that were partially or fully closed before the earthquake.

In other hospitals – like the private Clinica Nuestra – the expansion zones come in the form of temporary field clinics.

The hospital was forced to relocate patients after a partial collapse.

Here, an ambulance lies crushed by fallen debris, with a buckled “Emergency Room” sign hanging loosely above it.

He noted that while there is still stress on the healthcare system, particularly for patients with chronic illnesses struggling to access medications, the threat of hospitals being overwhelmed and unable to attend to those in need has now been contained.

“Unless another major mass event occurs that overwhelms emergency and inpatient services, the system should be fully stabilised,” he added.

The health secretary credited the recovery of the city’s hospital system to successful coordination between government officials, relief organisations and volunteers.

Relief efforts also depended on vast resources and manpower from civil society organisations.

Enrique Zapata, head of logistics at Cali-based health NGO SARES, stood in front of a crowded medical tent at the foot of the Vanessa apartment – a six-storey building that collapsed on August 10. The medical tent primarily serves volunteers, treating them as they carry out rescue operations.

As rescuers hurried past carrying buckets and shovels, he described the first moments after the earthquake.

“Everyone first checked on their family, and after that, all of us who are first responders, we immediately got in touch with the organisations we belong to,” said the medic.

He explained that emergency responders followed a plan, named the Incident Command System, which guided their immediate response – a system set up in advance to prepare for disasters that coordinates how government agencies and civil society groups can work together in the event of disasters.

“Personally, I think the city was well-prepared,” Zapata told Al Jazeera.

Beyond protocol, rescue workers were spurred to work through the night by a sense of duty.

“Even though your body often tells you, ‘I want to rest’, the adrenaline and the desire to help keep you from doing so,” explained Zapata.

Ricardo Castillo, an army veteran volunteering as a nurse at another col