The UK recorded its hottest day of the year on Thursday, with temperatures reaching 38.1C (100.6F) at Kew Gardens in west London as a powerful heatwave continued to grip parts of Europe.The provisional reading, recorded by the Met Office, surpassed the previous 2026 high of 38C set on June 28. It was also the fifth-highest temperature ever recorded in the UK, although it remained below the August record of 38.5C set in 2003.Temperatures reached 38C in Pershore, Worcestershire, while 40 locations across central and southern England recorded 36C or higher. The latest surge means 2026 has already seen a record four days with temperatures of at least 36C, while the UK has matched 2022's tally of two days reaching 38C.The extreme heat is part of Britain's fifth heatwave of the year, with the first recorded in May. The most intense conditions are expected to move eastwards on Friday before easing over the weekend.The heat has also exposed concerns about Britain's ability to cope with increasingly frequent extreme temperatures. Air conditioning remains uncommon in homes, while many public buildings, including hospitals, lack adequate cooling.The Royal College of Nursing said nurses had collapsed from heat exhaustion while working in hospitals. Nicola Ranger, the college's chief executive and general secretary, said staff becoming dizzy, sick or needing treatment at their own workplaces showed how poorly some hospitals were equipped to deal with the heat.Meanwhile, drought conditions are spreading across parts of Britain, putting pressure on water supplies, agriculture and the environment. Southern Water has applied for a drought order that could restrict non-essential water use, including car washing and filling non-domestic swimming pools. If approved, it would be the first such ban since 2006.Parched conditions have also increased the risk of wildfires. Firefighters have been tackling a blaze in the New Forest, while 1,017 wildfires have been recorded across England and Wales this year — matching last year's record total.Prime Minister Andy Burnham has called for people to avoid using disposable barbecues outdoors amid the heightened fire risk.France has also been hit by extreme heat, with temperatures approaching 41C in parts of the country. Wildfires have continued to threaten several regions, underlining the growing challenges posed by prolonged heat, drought and dry conditions across Europe.Catch the latest World News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.