Additional nine passengers sustain less serious injuries and major disruption to services reported

Two people have been seriously injured after a passenger train derailed between Haywards Heath and Lewes in East Sussex.

The South East Coast ambulance service said two people were taken to major trauma centres with severe injuries.

Images of the aftermath appeared to show passengers standing on top of the toppled carriages while others could be seen in an area of heathland alongside emergency workers.

British Transport Police said: “At this time we believe that two people have sustained serious injuries and a further nine patients have sustained less serious injuries. Patients have been assessed and treated at the scene, with some transported to local hospitals.”

Assistant chief constable Ian Drummond-Smith said: “We’ve declared a major incident and a significant emergency service response is ongoing at the scene, but all passengers on the train have now been safely evacuated from the service.

“Our thoughts are of course with everyone affected, and I’d like to reassure the public that we’re supporting the Rail Accident Investigation Branch [RAIB] to establish exactly what’s happened. We’ll provide further information as soon as we are able.”

An aerial photograph of the scene showed three of the train’s eight carriages on their side. Rob Bradley and his six-year-old daughter Mabel were in the last of the carriages to stay upright.

Speaking to the BBC he said: “We are doing OK. We were very lucky we were on the fourth carriage. The fifth went on its side.

“We felt the train speeding up and started to rock. Then our carriage jumped vertically upwards and we could tell it was a derailment. The emergency brakes went on the train and everything got thrown forward. “The train skidded for quite a while before it stopped. We turned around and we saw the whole back of the train was open and smoke and dust were pouring into the carriage and we saw the fifth carriage had gone on its side.”

Several rail routes were closed after the Southern service came off the tracks just before 4pm.

Emergency services said people should avoid the area, and that anyone travelling by rail in the area should allow up to 60 minutes extra for their journey.

A spokesperson for Network Rail and Southern Rail said: “We can confirm that the 1424 Southern passenger service from Victoria to Eastbourne has derailed in the Lewes area of East Sussex. Emergency services are on site and we will update with more information when we can. Trains through the area are suspended and passengers are advised to check online at southernrailway.com for the latest service information.”

The transport secretary, Heidi Alexander, tweeted: “Deeply concerned of reports of a derailment involving a Southern train in Lewes, Sussex.

“Grateful to emergency services who are on the scene supporting those impacted. We are working quickly with the rail industry and local partners to assist passengers.”

Southern said in an update on X: “If you are travelling to Gatwick airport, please allow at least an extra 150 minutes for your journey to ensure you make your flight connections and use an alternative route. “We have requested rail replacement buses to the following stations: Haywards Heath, Lewes. We will update you here on X once confirmed, but for now, please continue to travel using your own alternative route.”

In an earlier update it said the derailment had occurred between Haywards Heath and Lewes, meaning there are currently no trains between Brighton and Lewes, Haywards Heath and Lewes and Seaford/Eastbourne and Lewes.

The company told passengers: “You should delay your journey in this area until later on today, or use an alternative route to travel.”

James MacCleary, the MP for Lewes, said: “I am aware of very concerning reports of a train crash in the Lewes area this afternoon. I am in touch with the relevant authorities now and will provide further updates as soon as I have more information.

“This is clearly a very serious and developing incident, and my thoughts are with everyone affected. In the meantime, if you are concerned about someone or need urgent assistance, please contact the emergency services.”