Parliament's 25-day monsoon session ended in acrimony on Thursday, with both Houses adjourned sine die after a stretch that saw proceedings disrupted almost daily, with Lok Sabha going without a completed Question Hour on even a single sitting day.

The disruptions had two key flashpoints. One was the July 20 police crackdown on students protesting at Jantar Mantar over the NEET-UG 2026 paper leak — an episode that led to Dharmendra Pradhan’s resignation as Union education minister, and that the opposition wanted Union home minister Amit Shah to explain in the House.

The other was a running opposition allegation of theft of donations collected at the Ram temple in Ayodhya.

The Lok Sabha played all six stanzas of the national song Vande Mataram soon after convening on Thursday, after which speaker Om Birla adjourned the House sine die. He skipped the traditional valedictory address, which typically highlights the session's performance and productivity. The Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the Trinamool Congress boycotted the customary meeting with Birla thereafter.

Also Read | Lok Sabha Om Birla urges Opposition to end Parliament logjam

The Rajya Sabha was also adjourned sine die, ending the session. Chairman CP Radhakrishnan expressed "deep concern" over disruptions that "derailed" the business of the House. Overall, the Lok Sabha functioned for 17.5 hours while the Rajya Sabha worked for 37.4 hours.

The session was dominated by a showdown between the Opposition and the Centre over the former's demand for a debate and a statement by Shah on the police crackdown on protesting students at Delhi's Jantar Mantar last month, which led to the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan as Union education minister.

On the penultimate day, the Centre's push for a debate failed as the Opposition rejected Shah's offer of a two-day discussion on the NEET paper leak and other issues, followed by a reply from him. "The Centre is ready for discussions. The House should be allowed to run, the Opposition should submit a letter to the speaker by 2pm today. We are ready to start discussion at 3pm today," Shah told reporters outside Parliament on Wednesday.

Also Read | Rijiju defends Shah amid Oppn persistent demand for HM’s statement

He also wrote to Birla conveying the government's readiness to participate in the discussion. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called it a “last-minute attempt” and said the Opposition was not interested in listening to Shah’s lecture.

Despite repeated disruptions and protests inside and outside Parliament, both Houses tabled and in some cases, passed a series of bills.

A bill proposing contentious changes to India's foreign contribution law was referred to a 31-member joint parliamentary committee (JPC) amid a standoff between the government and the Opposition, and repeated disruptions in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday.

Among the key concerns are a plan to empower a "designated authority" to take over, manage or sell assets built with foreign funds by non-governmental organisations whose licences are cancelled, suspended or not renewed.

Also Read | ‘Echo Oppn's sentiments to Amit Shah': Rajya Sabha chairman to Rijiju amid ruckus over student protest crackdown

The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill - it was introduced in the previous session but held back - drew objections from the Opposition, several church delegations and four chief ministers of Christian-majority states.

Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai moved the resolution in the Lok Sabha to form the JPC, comprising 21 Lok Sabha members and 10 Rajya Sabha members. A BJP member is expected to head the panel. The Opposition, which had pushed the government to scrap the bill, said it would join the committee.

The Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Amendment Bill, 2026 — brought against the backdrop of protests by students after the NEET-UG 2026 paper leak — was the only legislation passed in both Houses after a full debate this session. The bill overhauls the 2024 law by introducing stricter jail terms, enhancing penalties, and setting timelines for probe and trial in fast-track courts.

According to PRS Legislative Research, the Lok Sabha spent over 10 hours discussing the bill and the Rajya Sabha over six hours. Opposition parties led by the Congress staged a walkout before the bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha, with leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge saying it was incomplete in its current form. Leader of the House JP Nadda condemned the move.

"It is indeed an achievement to clear a number of bills with one week left in the session. But we should not be blamed for passing the bills amid din," a senior government functionary told HT on condition of anonymity.

Both Houses passed the Bankers' Books Evidence Bill, 2026, replacing a 135-year-old British-era statute with a framework that makes electronic, digital, virtual and cloud-stored bank records admissible and enforceable evidence in cou