Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

Rescue Operations at the site of an under-construction tunnel, where workers are feared trapped after water and debris entered, in the Pipalkoti area of Chamoli district, Uttarakhand, on August 13, 2026. | Photo Credit: Special Arrangement

At least six people died and 14 others sustained injuries on Thursday (August 13, 2026) after water and debris entered a tunnel under construction at a hydroelectric project site in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, officials said.

According to preliminary information shared by the officials, 22 workers were trapped inside the tunnel. Twenty people have been brought out of the tunnel. Of them, six were declared dead, while 14 others have sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital. Information about the remaining two workers was not immediately available.

Earlier, officials said 16 workers were rescued after water and debris entered the under-construction tunnel in the Pipalkoti area of Chamoli.

According to the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the incident was reported around 7.05 p.m. Preliminary information suggested that 22 workers were inside the tunnel being built for a Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited (THDC) project when water and debris entered it.

Rescue operations were launched soon after the incident was reported. Teams from the Indian Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF were rushed to the site and raced against time to locate and evacuate the trapped workers.

District-level rescue teams, the local police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel were also involved in the operation.

Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami expressed concern over the incident and directed officials to carry out the rescue operation on a war footing. He said the government’s priority was to ensure the safe evacuation of every worker trapped inside the tunnel.

Chamoli district has witnessed heavy rainfall over the past several days. On Monday (August 10, 2026), a bridge in the Niti Valley region was swept away after rising water levels triggered a strong current in the river. A video of the incident showed a large volume of muddy water surging downstream and crashing into the metal bridge. The powerful current soon uprooted the structure and pushed it towards the riverbank.

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.