Will have to examine if revolt by Shiv Sena MLAs in 2022 can be treated as party split, says SC

Nisha da Cunha (1934-2026): An inspirational teacher and writer of things usually left unsaid

HC sets aside order refusing FCRA renewal of NGOs over claims of funding protests against Adani port

From the biography: How mathematician DD Kosambi envisioned higher education in science in India

This new cookbook shows how recipes from ancient Odisha can be recreated in the modern kitchen

After Operation Sindoor, India-Pakistan rivalry shifts to space

‘She had stepped out to buy food’: Another Bengali woman forcibly pushed to Bangladesh from Mumbai

Rush Hour: Sukhbir Badal attacked, UP court okays withdrawal of riot case against BJP leaders & more

Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was on Thursday attacked inside a gurdwara in Maharashtra’s Nanded district allegedly by a Nihang Sikh man, PTI reported.

He reportedly suffered injuries to his arm and shoulder, but is in a stable condition.

A video released by the news agency showed the former Punjab deputy chief minister being taken to a hospital.

VIDEO | Maharashtra: Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has been taken to a hospital after he was reportedly attacked inside a Gurudwara in Nanded. More details awaited.(Source: Third Party)(Full video available on PTI Videos - https://t.co/d8jp61yd2p) pic.twitter.com/RvZkrc0nNv

The attack took place at Nanded’s Gurdwara Mata Sahib allegedly by a group of Nihang Sikhs, The Indian Express reported.

One person has been arrested for the attack, PTI quoted the office of Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis as saying. Fadnavis has ordered an inquiry into the motive behind the assault on Badal, the chief minister’s office said.

Shiromani Akali Dal spokesperson Arshdeep Singh Kaler said that Badal was out of danger and “perfectly fine”.

In a video statement released on social media, Kaler said, “On Thursday, Sukhbir Singh Badal paid obeisance at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib. As he was leaving the shrine, a person dressed in Nihang attire attacked him.”

“The incident happened in Maharashtra and the police there are investigating the case,” Kaler said.

This was the second attack on Badal. On December 4, 2024, former militant Narain Singh Chaura had opened fire at the Akali Dal chief at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. The bullet missed Badal and Chaura was immediately overpowered by the police.