Cockroach Janta Party (CJP) founder Abhijeet Dipke has brought back the slogan that launched his satirical movement, this time turning to the legal fraternity amid the ongoing row between the Bar Council of India (BCI) and NALSAR University of Law.

The BCI on Thursday directed state bar councils not to enrol any of the NALSAR 2026 graduates after students opposed Chief Justice of India (CJI) Surya Kant’s invitation as chief guest at the university’s convocation.

“What if all legal cockroaches come together?” Dipke posted on X, reacting to the BCI’s decision to halt the enrolment of law graduates as advocates.

ALSO READ | BCI halts enrolment of NALSAR 2026 graduates amid row over CJI Surya Kant in convocation, withdraws move later

Dipke’s latest post carries a reference to the origins of the CJP movement. The movement began in May after CJI Surya Kant, during a hearing, referred to the youth of the country as “cockroaches”.

Dipke, located in the US at the time, posed online the now-famous question: “What if all the cockroaches come together?” The post evolved into the Cockroach Janta Party, a satirical youth movement that went on to attract a large following and eventually organise protests across the country.

Massive student-led demonstrations over paper leaks, student suicides and reform in the examination system ultimately forced the resignation of Dharmendra Pradhan as Union education minister.

Dipke had earlier publicly thanked CJI Surya Kant for the remark that inspired the movement. He said at a Jantar Mantar protest that he would not have returned to India or started the campaign had he not been called a “cockroach”.

With the BCI-NALSAR controversy once again involving CJI Surya Kant, Dipke seems to have returned to the same metaphor.

ALSO READ | ‘Jantar Mantar Season 2 going to start very soon’: CJP founder Abhijeet Dipke's big remark

Dipke also appeared to tease a possible campaign seeking the resignation of BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra. “Time for Manan Mishra isteefa do? (resign)," he wrote on X.

The founder's post also saw a response from CJP chief spokesperson Saurav Das. “Much needed,” he said.

"The Bar Council of India needs to be looked into. Manan Mishra has been its Chairman since 2012. What has he done? Needs to be accounted for. All legal cockroaches, your task is cut out. Let’s fix BCI’s accountability. Let’s fix Mishra’s accountability. #LegalCockroachesUnite,” Das wrote on X.

Das separately criticised the BCI's action against the NALSAR graduates. He said it was “grossly disproportionate, deeply troubling, and prima facie indefensible”.

“Students cannot be collectively penalised for expressing dissent over a ceremonial invitation. The Cockroach Janta Party condemns this order,” Das said.

He also warned that if BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra did not withdraw the order, CJP would mobilise law students, advocates, senior lawyers and its supporters to protest outside the BCI office and Mishra’s official residence.

Mishra later responded to the protest threat: “Council has already withdrawn that letter.”

Das, though, claimed the order had not been fully withdrawn. He said the BCI’s new letter still sought the names of students and called for an inquiry against them.

“IMMEDIATELY withdraw that entire letter,” Das wrote on X and demanded no NALSAR student face an inquiry for expressing dissent against CJI Surya Kant.

He also said the CJP’s protest call would remain in place until the BCI withdrew the letter completely and assured that no action would be taken against the students.

The CJP also demanded the BCI withdraw, rather than modify, its order. On X, the CJP said the BCI initially barred the entire 2026 graduating batch from practising law after around 70 students wrote a letter questioning the invitation to CJI Surya Kant as convocation guest.

While the BCI later modified the order and allowed the students to enrol, the party pointed out that the inquiry into the students and teachers involved was still continuing.

Calling it a “witch hunt”, the CJP demanded that the BCI withdraw the letter completely and guarantee that no student would face action for peacefully expressing dissent. It also said that BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra was a sitting BJP Rajya Sabha member, and said, “We will NOT stay silent.”

The row began after a section of NALSAR students objected to CJI Surya Kant being invited as chief guest for the university’s convocation.

A group of 70 final-year LLB students first submitted a representation on July 23, with students from other batches later supporting it. The students cited concerns over remarks made by the CJI during a Supreme Court hearing on alleged police violence against student protesters in Delhi.

On Thursday, the BCI responded by directing all state bar councils not to enrol any of NALSAR’s 2026 graduates and sought a report identifying those behind the campaign.

This triggered vast criticism over the collective enrolment freez