The new president is a former judge on the European Court of Human Rights

Former ECtHR and Hungarian Supreme Court judge András Baka has been elected the new Hungarian president.

72-year-old Baka is another example of the new government’s clear break with the Orbán era: the lawyer was removed from the post of the president of the Supreme Court in 2011 by the then prime mnister, three years before his term was set to expire. He later won a case at the European Court of Human Rights against Hungary.

In his acceptance speech, Baka said he believed Hungary “reached a period in its history when a serious reflection is needed about the functioning of the state,” after the last two decades of “a serious crisis” under the previous government and with deep societal divisions.

He will replace Viktor Orbán loyalist Tamás Sulyok who stood down – or was effectively removed – from the post last month.

Former ECtHR and Hungarian supreme court judge András Baka has been elected the new Hungarian president in another break with Viktor Orbán era (13:14, 15:15, 15:26).

Baka will replace an Orbán loyalist, Tamás Sulyok, who stepped down last month after signing a constitutional amendment passed by the ruling Tisza party of the prime minister, Péter Magyar.

Baka was removed by Orbán as the head of the Hungarian Supreme Court in 2011, and later won a case on unfair dismissal at the European Court of Human Rights.

In his acceptance speech, Baka warned that “we cannot build the new Hungary on revenge” (15:43), as he outlined his vision for performing the largely ceremonial role.

Spanish foreign minister José Manuel Albares urged migrants to “not risk their lives” and abandon any plans to force their way through the Spanish-Moroccan border, as he pledged that “every last person” crossing the border will be returned to their place of origin (12:59).

Latvia said a tunnel had been discovered under the border with ⁠Belarus and announced plans to combat networks that it says are helping a growing number of migrants cross the frontier illegally, following similar concern in neighbouring Lithuania (12:05).

New Eurostat data showed 4.41 million non-EU citizens who fled Ukraine had temporary protection status in the EU at the end of June 2026 (14:34).

The blog will be start a bit later than usual tomorrow as we will focus on the solar eclipse seen in various parts of Europe. Make sure to tune in and follow our coverage.

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Be in no doubt: we will obviously bring you the live coverage of tomorrow’s solar eclipse here, on Europe Live.

Tomorrow’s total eclipse will be the first in mainland Europe in two decades.

A wide band of north and central Spain, plus a sliver of Portugal and parts of Greenland and Iceland will experience a rare total eclipse. The light of the setting sun will be virtually blocked out across much of western Europe, including the UK, France, Belgium, Switzerland and northern Italy.

The last event of this kind visible from the UK occurred in 1999, when parts of Devon and Cornwall were in the path of totality. The next total solar eclipse visible in the UK is not due to occur until 2090.

Ahead of tomorrow’s solar eclipse – which will be probably best seen in Iceland and Spain, but should also give us some stunning visuals in the UK – hotel prices have surged in key European cities as hundreds of thousands of tourists flock to see the first total eclipse visible from the continent this century.

Iceland’s capital, Reykjavík, has seen one of the biggest jumps in hotel room prices, being one of the few accessible locations to see the full eclipse before evening on Wednesday, Kalyeena Makortoff reports.

Spain is also steeling itself for an influx of tourists, as one of the best places on the European continent to view the total solar eclipse. The finance ministry said on Monday that it expected 460,000 overseas tourists to visit specifically to see the eclipse.

However, authorities in Spain are worried about an increased risk of fires, with police expecting 1.5m more car journeys than usual on Wednesday. They have warned that extraordinarily dry temperatures mean the smallest spark could lead to devastating forest fires, while traffic could end up blocking access for emergency vehicles if fires break out in rural areas.

The EU wants to “positively advance” closer relations with the UK that can deliver “for business, young people” and shared security interests, Ireland’s Europe minister has said.

Thomas Byrne was speaking after an introductory call on behalf of the EU presidency with the UK’s new European relations minister Hamish Falconer on Tuesday (11:08).

He also hinted at new deals on defence and security revealing they discussion the importance of the UK participation in the Ukraine support loans.

“Exploring further areas of cooperation in the 