The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is engaged in the systematic collection, preservation and examination of all evidence as part of its probe into the sudden loss of altitude of an Air India Phuket-Delhi flight that injured 24 people last month.

A statement released by the civil aviation ministry on Tuesday said the AAIB will take into account all relevant technical, operational, medical and human factor-based evidence. “This includes examination of the aircraft and its systems, recorded flight data, relevant operational and maintenance records, medical information, and interviews with persons concerned. All material evidence will be examined in its entirety before any conclusions are drawn,” the release said.

On August 4, the Phuket-Delhi flight AI2379 dropped 300 feet in a sudden loss of altitude during cruise, injuring 20 passengers and four crew members. An initial statement from Air India had cited turbulence as the reason.

People familiar with the developments on Tuesday said the pilot-in-command (PIC) tested positive for a psychoactive substance during a post-flight screening. The pilot’s preliminary drug test had returned “non-negative”, a government release earlier said. “The pilot in question has tested positive in the confirmatory test. He has tested positive for Marijuana,” an official aware of the details in the report told HT.

The incident has been classified as a serious one. The AAIB is investigating the circumstances surrounding the occurrence, while the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is responsible for regulatory action based on the outcome of the investigation and the prescribed testing process.

Also Read | Mid-air ‘turbulence’ causes Air India's Phuket-Delhi flight to drop 300 feet: Why monsoon airspace is unlike any other

The ministry’s release said the main focus of the investigation is to determine the circumstances and contributing factors relating to the incident and to identify appropriate safety measures to prevent recurrence. “The investigation is independent, evidence-based and comprehensive, and no inference regarding the cause of the occurrence should be drawn from any isolated piece of information while the investigation is in progress,” it said.

It also said that certain records, statements, medical information and other material collected during the investigation are protected and confidential in accordance with the applicable investigation framework.

“Maintaining the integrity and confidentiality of the investigation process is essential to a fair, objective and technically sound determination of the facts,” it said. “The AAIB will conduct a thorough investigation covering all material facts and relevant evidence and will issue its preliminary findings within the stipulated timeframe in accordance with the applicable provisions and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) protocols. Further information will be placed in the public domain at the appropriate stage of the investigation,” it added.

Also Read | ‘Flight dropped 300 feet’: Woman recalls terrifying Air India Phuket-Delhi turbulence

The AAIB remains committed to an independent, transparent and professional investigation, with aviation safety as its overriding objective, it said.

Earlier, people familiar with the matter cited a preliminary defect report (PDR) prepared by the pilots to suggest that the incident was preceded by multiple technical glitches, including an autopilot disconnection.

Two persons aware of the matter said the pilots mentioned technical issues with the aircraft in the PDR. “The PDR mentioned that the autopilot disconnected. It also mentioned a stall warning and a flight control ECAM (Electronic Centralised Aircraft Monitor) message,” said one of these persons, requesting anonymity.

A second official said the matter “is being investigated considering all the angles including suspected technical glitch.”

With the AAIB commencing its probe into the August 4 incident, teams from the French air accident investigation agency, Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA), as well as the aircraft’s manufacturer Airbus will assist in the investigation, as per the standard operating procedures.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking ne