NEW DELHI: The confirmatory dope test of the pilot-in-command (PIC) operating Air India's Phuket-Delhi flight last Tuesday has also come positive, say sources. His screening test done on arrival was "non negative" and then as per procedure, a confirmatory test was conducted whose report came Tuesday.Sources say the plot has tested positive for marijuana, which is commonly known as weed. The DGCA is now working for more strict dope test requirements to act as an effective deterrent.Meanwhile, aviation secretary Samir Sinha called Air India's outgoing CEO Campbell Wilson where officials of the DGCA and AAIB were present. The officials asked AI to ensure safety of operations from all aspects and asked what steps is the airline taking to the effect.Also read | 'Taking matter seriously,' says aviation minister as turbulence-hit Air India flight pilot fails 2nd dope testThe pilots of Air India’s August 4 Phuket-Delhi flight, which had experienced a sudden loss of altitude of about 300 feet during cruise, were subjected to psychoactive substance (dope) screening test on arrival at the destination. The pilot-in-command or captain’s screening test report was “not negative” and has been sent for confirmatory tests, the aviation ministry said Sunday.The ministry has classified the incident, which led to 17 people being hospitalised, as a serious one and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) will probe it. “Further action, as appropriate, will be taken based on the outcome of the investigation and confirmatory test results,” government said.Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) rules stipulate that “in case the screening test (for psychoactive substances) is non-negative, the employee shall be immediately removed from the safety sensitive duty till a confirmatory report is received. In case of positive confirmatory test for the first time, the concerned employee shall be referred by the organisation” for de-addiction.Multiple passengers and cabin crew members on board the Airbus A320 operating as AI 2379 were injured when it suddenly lost altitude. The plane later landed safely in Delhi. “As standard operating procedures following such an occurrence, both flight crew members underwent the prescribed psychoactive substance screening test. The screening test in respect of the pilot-in-command (PIC) indicated a result requiring confirmatory testing. Samples have accordingly been sent to the designated laboratory for confirmatory analysis, and the final report is awaited,” the ministry statement added.Both the pilots have been taken off flying duty by the DGCA pending investigation.“… firmly committed to highest standards of aviation safety and ensuring that all such occurrences are thoroughly investigated and appropriate action is taken in accordance with the prescribed regulations and procedures,” the statement added.Authorities are probing this case from all angles including what caused the sudden of altitude, weather or something else; the handling of this event; impact on the aircraft like did it suffer hydraulic failure due to impact and whether it should have flown all the way to Delhi after the episode and not diverted to some nearby airport like Varanasi or Lucknow.DGCA rules stipulate that a pilot testing positive for consumption of psychoactive substances for the first time be referred to for de-addiction and rehabilitation. Such crew member can return for active duties with a negative dope test report.But after resuming flying if the same person tests positive for psychoactive substances again, their licence will be suspended for three years. And if after resuming flying the same person again tests positive for the third time, the flying licence is cancelled.Get the latest India News and Live updates. Download the TOI app.