The Trump administration's policy suspending the processing of visas from 75 countries, including Afghanistan, Iran, Russia and Somalia, has been struck down by a federal judge in New York on Friday.

The Trump administration issued a policy to suspend visas for nationals it deemed likely to require public assistance in the United States.

US District Judge Jeannette Vargas, an appointee of former President Joe Biden, set aside the policy as "contrary to law and in excess of statutory authority."

US Secretary of State Marco Rubio exceeded his authority by issuing the policy, which "runs afoul" of the Immigration and Nationality Act by mandating "the refusal of visas to eligible applicants without any basis in law," the judge ruled.

Vargas said the policy also undermines the congressional requirement that puts consular officers at the forefront of any visa decision.

"Congress imbued these officers with exclusive authority and discretion to determine if an immigrant is eligible for a visa based upon review of specific and detailed criteria set forth in the statute," she wrote. “The Policy, which categorically prohibits the issuance of immigrant visas based upon the nationality of the applicant, represents a direct abrogation of this statutory scheme.”

The policy was challenged by two nonprofit organisations along with 11 individuals, including six whose family members had been refused visas. The remaining five are outside the country and had filed "employment-based petitions" to come to the United States.

"We welcome this ruling because, at its heart, this case is about keeping families together," said Anna Gallagher, the executive director of CLINIC, a national nonprofit that provides training, resources, and support to a network of immigration legal service providers and was one of the plaintiffs.

"Catholic social teaching calls us to uphold the dignity of every person and recognise the family as the foundation of society," she said in a statement. "This decision affirms both those values and the rule of law, allowing families to once again move forward toward reunification."

US President Donald Trump had imposed a growing list of immigration and travel bans, mostly for people from Africa, Asia and Latin America.

On Saturday, the State Department said that the Trump administration is "protecting the American people by upholding the highest standards of screening and vetting of visa applicants," and that it would not comment on pending litigation.

At the time the policy was issued, the department said it had instructed consular officers to halt immigrant visa applications from the 75 countries in accordance with a broader order in November that tightened rules around potential immigrants who might become "public charges."

Citing data from the Council of Economic Advisers, the State Department said that more than 30 per cent of households with immigrants from these countries received some form of public assistance.

A separate notice sent to all US embassies and consulates said that non-immigrant visa applicants also should be "fully vetted and screened" for the possibility that they might seek public benefits in the United States.

The ruling is the latest example of the courts upending Trump's immigration agenda.

In June, a federal judge struck down a Trump administration policy that made it harder for immigrants from dozens of countries to enter and remain in America, affecting areas such as asylum, work permits, green cards, and citizenship applications.

The judge said the policy threw countless immigrants' lives "into indeterminate legal limbo," and accused the US Citizenship and Immigration Services of ignoring the law.

For about a decade, Livemint—News Desk has been a credible source for authentic and timely news, and well-researched analysis on national news, business, personal finance, corporates, politics and geopolitics. We bring the latest updates on all the listed companies on BSE and NSE, startups, mutual funds, Union ministries, geopolitics, and untapped human interest stories from around the world, helping our readers to stay informed on the latest developments around the globe. Our Coverage Areas 1. Companies: Comprehensive news and analysis on listed and unlisted companies, corporate announcements, corporate chatter, C-suite, business trends, hiring alerts, layoffs, work-life balance, world's top billionaires and richest and more. 2. Personal finance: Insights into mutual funds, small savings schemes like - PPF, SSY, post office savings scheme, stock to watch, personal loans, credit cards, top bank FDs, real estate, income tax and more. 3. Politics: Comprehensive coverage of general elections, state elections and bypolls, Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha, Parliament, PMO, PIB, finance ministry, home ministry, among other union ministries and government departments. 4. National News: From metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, and e to untapped stories from rural India, we cover human interest,