Yorgen Fenech cleared on both charges he faced over 2017 killing of journalist that prompted global outrage

One of Malta’s richest men has been found not guilty of involvement in the murder of the anti-corruption journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia.

The verdict, which is expected to be appealed against by the prosecution, will come as a blow not only to the victim’s family, but to the politicians and campaigners who regard the case as a landmark action in the fight to protect press freedom in Europe.

Nearly nine years after Caruana Galizia’s death in a car bombing in October 2017, a jury of six women and three men found Yorgen Fenech, 44, not guilty of both counts with which he had been charged: complicity in the voluntary homicide of Caruana Galizia, and association with the intention of committing a crime.

Delivered at 7.30pm, the verdict was decisive. To gasps from the gallery and cheers from Fenech’s relatives, the forewoman announced jurors had voted to dismiss both counts by an eight-to-one majority.

As Caruana Galizia’s family listened in shock, with some relatives in tears, the judge, Edwina Grima, immediately ordered Fenech’s release from custody. If convicted, he would have faced a life sentence. He left court through the front entrance, without responding to requests for comment.

“Everybody is much more at risk now, because this signals you can kill journalists with impunity,” Caruana Galizia’s sister, Corinne Vella, said. “We knew an acquittal was a huge possibility. But it’s like when someone dies, it still shocks you.”

In a message on Facebook, the journalist’s eldest son decried a “terrible decision by the jurors that our country may never recover from. They had a great responsibility to deliver justice. And washed their hands of it”.

The leader of the opposition Nationalist party, Alex Borg, requested the urgent reopening of parliament, which is currently in recess, to discuss the verdict. “We believe journalism is the backbone of a democracy,” said Borg, speaking to a crowd of demonstrators that had assembled on Wednesday night outside parliament. He described the verdict as a black spot on the Labour government, and said the press should be free to do its work “independently and without undue pressure”.

Fenech, an influential businessman and property developer whose family owns two Hilton hotels and has a share in a power station in Malta, had been accused by prosecutors of paying €150,000 (£129,000) via a middleman, Melvin Theuma, to have the journalist killed.

The murder of Caruana Galizia, who targeted Fenech and leading political figures in her reporting, triggered the most consequential political scandal in Malta’s postwar history, becoming a rallying point for anti-corruption and press freedom activism.

The fallout resulted in Joseph Muscat, the then prime minister of the EU’s smallest member state, being forced out of office along with two of his ministers and his chief of staff.

While Muscat left office, the party he led remains in power. In a statement, the government noted the verdict and appealed for prudence in public comments at a delicate moment, insisting: “The government remains committed to seeing justice served by its institutions.”

The two-month trial laid bare the extent of Fenech’s network of political contacts, and raised questions about attempts to sabotage and interfere with the police investigation. Key witnesses, and the defendant himself, claimed the prime minister’s chief of staff had repeatedly leaked sensitive information to Fenech.

Summing up the case against him, prosecutor Anthony Vella said Fenech believed he could “buy justice”, telling the jury: “You are being asked to decide whether a man who had extensive contacts in politics and among the heads of public entities had enough power to pay for Daphne to be killed.”

The defence argued that the chain of command went higher, with suggestions from Fenech and his lawyers that the person who had ordered the killing was Muscat’s former chief of staff Keith Schembri. They said police had not done enough to investigate allegations about his involvement.

“All roads lead to Keith, and all bridges to Keith were burned,” the defence lawyer Charles Mercieca said in his summing up.

In his testimony, Fenech told the jury: “I never ordered Daphne Caruana Galizia’s murder, or anyone else’s. I had no role in her murder.” He said he had merely acted as a messenger between Schembri and Theuma, and that the taxi-driver had blackmailed him.

Schembri, who gave evidence at the trial, denied all wrongdoing, saying he had no involvement in leaks and no knowledge of the murder.

Fenech’s defence lawyer, Giannella de Marco, said Schembri and others should have been investigated. She said the prosecution’s chief witness had not been believed.

“The jurors did not believe Melvin Theuma. It was an eight-one verdict, which means unanimous … don’t you think jurors saw who the real masterminds were?” she said.

The vote wa