More Indian students are abandoning higher education as degrees no longer seem worth the cost

Two days after Bhagwat’s speech in New York, 90 US politicians pledge to not take RSS-linked funding

Rush Hour: Modi reiterates call for austerity, CJP cancels September 5 march and more

Ex-bureaucrat allegedly questioned by Delhi Police for X post about Amit Shah, released hours later

PM’s economic adviser denies allegations of Centre manipulating GDP data

‘Homes without Windows’: India’s caste history becomes a personal story in Chandu Maheria’s memoir

Tibet floods: China is keeping tight control over the narrative by deleting videos, censoring news

‘Furious’ review: A riveting tale of angry women and vigilante justice

India’s indigenous fruits are disappearing from diets and the landscape

How Japan’s victory in the 1905 war against Russia strengthened India’s resolve for freedom

The trust that administers the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday named retired Air Marshal Jeetendra Mishra as its first chief executive officer.

Jeetendra Mishra commanded the Air Force’s Western Air Command during Operation Sindoor, the military operation against Pakistan-based terrorist bases launched after the Pahalgam terror attack. He was among seven military officers awarded the Sarvottam Yudh Seva Medal for their roles in the operation.

The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust also appointed three new members: Mahesh Bhagchandka, Madan Mohan Pandey and Nirmala Yadav. The appointments came against the backdrop of a controversy about the alleged embezzlement of donations at the Ram temple.

The three new appointments followed the resignation of Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Champat Rai and trustee Anil Mishra, who stepped down after the allegations emerged. The third vacancy was created by the death of Vimlendra Pratap Mishra, a member of Ayodhya’s erstwhile royal family, on August 23.

श्रीराम जन्मभूमि तीर्थ क्षेत्र के न्यासियों की बैठक आज अयोध्या में सम्पन्न हुई। बैठक में न्यास से जुड़े विभिन्न महत्वपूर्ण विषयों पर विस्तार से चर्चा हुई तथा अनेक महत्वपूर्ण निर्णय लिए गए। बैठक के पश्चात न्यास द्वारा जारी प्रेस विज्ञप्तिA meeting of the Trustees of Shri Ram… pic.twitter.com/5JdfgAUNUE

Jeetendra Mishra told The Hindu that he did not know about the appointment till the announcement was made on media outlets. “I also got to know about my selection through television,” he was quoted as saying by the newspaper. “I am elated for the same.”

Following the allegations about theft of donations to the temple, Rai and Anil Mishra resigned from their posts on “moral grounds” on June 26.

A first information report was registered against eight persons in the case a day earlier. The FIR was filed based on a complaint by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.

On June 23, the Special Investigation Team probing the alleged irregularities at the Ram temple submitted its preliminary report to the Uttar Pradesh government.

In its preliminary report, submitted to the Uttar Pradesh home department on June 23, the SIT found 70 instances of counting staff hiding bundles of notes and loose cash in their clothes, pockets and shoes. Scroll has seen a copy of the report.

The report alleged that offerings were stolen during the counting process, with staff routinely hiding cash on their bodies and walking out with it, as systems meant to stop this were not enforced. It also flagged serious lapses by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and the State Bank of India, the banker to the trust.

In July, a new special investigation team set up by the Uttar Pradesh government looking into the alleged embezzlement of donations made to the Ram temple.