LUCKNOW: Air Marshal Jeetendra Mishra (retd), appointed as the first chief executive officer of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, told TOI that the opportunity to serve the people of the nation had inspired him to take up the new responsibility.“Whatever has inspired the rest of the 5,585 candidates, exactly the same thing has inspired me. It is the opportunity to serve the people of my nation,” Mishra said.Mishra, who retired from the Indian Air Force after nearly 39 years of service, said he felt grateful and fortunate to have received another opportunity to serve the nation within months of his retirement.“I am full of gratitude and consider myself a very fortunate person. God gave me an opportunity to serve the nation in uniform for 39 years. Within a couple of months of my retirement, God has given me another opportunity to serve the nation,” he said.Mishra said he viewed his selection as a blessing from Lord Ram. He thanked the selection committee for choosing him from among thousands of applicants and said he hoped to contribute to the service of the Ram temple and its devotees.“I want to sincerely thank the selection committee. I consider it my good fortune that I was selected from among so many candidates,” he said.Asked about the transition from wearing a military uniform to taking charge of the temple’s administrative responsibilities, Mishra said the nature of the role had changed, but the larger purpose remained the same.“It is a transition from uniform to non-uniform, but it is again an opportunity to serve the nation,” he said.Mishra said it was too early to discuss specific plans for the temple Trust before formally taking charge. He said he would first interact with the Trust and understand the responsibilities, expectations and working arrangements linked to the CEO’s post.“I have not yet been able to speak with the Trust. As they direct me, I will join and take charge,” he said.He also said his family was extremely happy with his selection.“It is God’s order. Everyone in my family is immensely pleased. My mother, other family members and my two kids are all very happy,” he said.Mishra said he would seek Lord Ram’s strength and guidance to discharge his new responsibilities properly.The CEO is expected to oversee the Trust’s expanding administrative and operational work, including pilgrim management, coordination among stakeholders, large religious events, security, finance, engineering and technology-related functions.Mishra hails from Bhopatpura village in Bankata block of Bhatpar Rani tehsil in Deoria district and is settled in Mayur Vihar, Delhi.His younger brother, Devendra Mishra, is a professor at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi. Their sister, Vandana Mishra, is a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi.You Can Also Check: Gold Rate in Lucknow | Silver Rate in Lucknow | Bank Holidays in Lucknow | Public Holidays in Lucknow | Lucknow AQI | Weather in Lucknow | Petrol Price in Lucknow | Diesel Price in Lucknow | CNG Price in Lucknow | LPG Price in LucknowStay updated with the latest Lucknow news. Download the TOI App.