India on Wednesday condemned the reported demolition of a century-old Hindu temple in Pakistan's Punjab and called on the government in Islamabad to conduct an investigation into the incident and ensure that those responsible are held accountable.

This was the latest in a string of similar incidents involving the shrines of Pakistan's minority communities that have been taken up by the Indian side.

Also read: 'Can remove Pak from world picture': Pakistan PMO crops Modi out of SCO pic, gets warned

“We have noted with deep concern the disturbing reports of the destruction of a historic Hindu temple in village Siraj, Narowal, Pakistan. We unequivocally condemn this reprehensible act of vandalism against a century old minority place of worship,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said in a statement.

The apparent apathy of Pakistani authorities and the failure to protect the temple is alarming, Jaiswal said. “Such incidents are a stark reminder of the continuing vulnerability of minority communities and the egregious violations of their religious freedoms and places of worship in Pakistan,” he said.

The Indian side called on the government of Pakistan to “conduct a prompt and transparent investigation into this incident and ensure that those responsible are held fully accountable”.

Also read: Pact born out of Partition: The Indus Waters Treaty, why India rejects The Hague tribunal & its ruling

The Pakistan government must also take “immediate remedial measures to restore the desecrated temple and fulfill its primary obligation to guarantee the safety, security and well-being of all its minority citizens and their cultural heritage”, Jaiswal said.

The demolition of the temple in Narowal has sparked a row in Pakistan as well, after a minority rights group alleged that the structure was deliberately demolished to facilitate the expansion of an adjoining seminary, according to a report by Pakistani news outlet The Dawn. However, the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) claimed that the temple collapsed due to heavy rainfall.

The temple was razed on August 21, following which the Pakistan Masiha Millat Party (PMMP), an outfit that works for minority rights, alleged that a group of people demolished the structure and removed its bricks, metal fittings from the dome and other material from the site.

The PMMP also approached the authorities to seek action against those responsible for the demolition. The group said the temple was estimated to be over 125 years old.

Follow the latest breaking news, major developments and agenda-setting stories from India and around the world with the newsdesk at Hindustan Times. Operating round the clock, the desk brings together experienced editors, reporters and correspondents to deliver fast, accurate and contextual reporting across subjects that influence public policy, governance, business, society and international affairs. The HT News Desk covers politics, elections, government policies, the economy, business and markets, science and technology, the environment, law and order, infrastructure, education, climate issues and geopolitics, while closely tracking developments across states, institutions and global capitals. The team also leads coverage of major breaking news events, policy announcements, court proceedings, natural disasters, public emergencies and significant international developments. Reports published by the newsdesk are based on information gathered from reporters on the ground, official statements, government agencies, court records, regulatory filings, recognised institutions and other authoritative sources. Stories undergo editorial scrutiny and verification processes to ensure accuracy, fairness and relevance, and are updated as events evolve and additional information becomes available. Whether covering a key political decision in New Delhi, an economic policy shift affecting millions, a landmark court ruling or a major global event, the HT News Desk aims to provide readers with reliable, fact-based journalism that delivers not only the latest developments but also the context and analysis needed to understand their wider implications.Read More