Iran responded to an assault on its Larak Island by targeting US bases in Jordan

Trump threatens further action as US and Iran exchange fire in new flare-up

The US president, Donald Trump, has told Fox News’s chief foreign correspondent, Trey Yingst, that the US will respond to Iran targeting US military bases in Jordan overnight. “We’re going to hit them hard,” Trump told Fox News. “There will be a response,” he added, after Jordan’s army confirmed it had intercepted eight missiles early this morning.

Trump was sending a message ⁠to Iran ⁠with ​his social media post about ⁠Kharg Island, vice-president JD Vance ⁠said on Monday. “The ​president ‌likes to ‌switch it up ‌on social media a little bit. He would be the first to ‌say he doesn’t make announcements about military ​actions on social media, but I think that he’s ⁠sending a message ​to ​the Iranians,” ​Vance said when asked ​about ‌Trump’s ​post.

Trump’s one-line social media post on Sunday was accompanied by an AI-generated video clip showing fake attacks by the US military. A US ‌official said on Monday the military had not targeted Kharg Island in overnight ​strikes. An Iranian official dismissed Trump’s post as “laughable”.

US ⁠treasury secretary ⁠Scott ⁠Bessent told CNBC ​in an ⁠interview on Monday ⁠that ​the ‌goal ‌of US sanctions ‌on Iran is “to create the ‌conditions that they ​will want to come ⁠to the ​table” for ​negotiations. As Bessent opened meetings of the Group of 20 finance ministers in Asheville on Monday, he said he wants to focus on ways to grow the global economy and rein in mounting debt.

Bessent also briefly touched on the new Iran sanctions earlier this morning, before his opening remarks in Asheville. Speaking to reporters, Bessent predicted that, under the latest round of sanctions, Iran’s economy could collapse within “weeks or months”. But he also suggested that a deal, not collapse, was the administration’s primary goal.

In a brief post to his Truth Social platform, Trump claimed Iran is a “failed nation” with no navy, air force or currency. “IT IS DEAD!” he wrote, saying the only things Tehran have in its favour are a sympathetic US media, a “willingness to kill their protesters” and a “good line of bullshit”. Trump said the Iranian leadership is in “total disarray” and is “incapable” of properly representing the country.

The UAE condemned an Iranian drone attack intercepted over its territorial waters, calling it a “dangerous escalation”. In a statement on X, the UAE’s foreign ministry “strongly condemned the hostile Iranian attack on the country involving a drone that was intercepted by air defence systems over UAE territorial waters”.

US Central Command (Centcom) has denied claims made by Iran state ⁠TV and the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps that a ship had struck mines in the strait of Hormuz. In a statement posted to social media, Centcom said “Iran’s claim that a supertanker passing through strait of Hormuz struck two mines and was brought to a complete stop is false.”

The EU issued a statement saying it will work with the US and other allied countries to maintain economic pressure against Iran. “The ‌EU welcomes efforts at ensuring that Iran ceases its destabilising activities and engages in peace negotiations with good ‌faith, also through additional economic pressure, including through ​the US-led Operation Economic Outcast,” it said in reference to the pressure strategy the White House describes as “an unprecedented campaign to sever every remaining economic lifeline sustaining” the Islamic republic.

Medics ⁠said two ⁠people ​were killed and several others injured when an Israeli airstrike hit ⁠a crowd of people near the municipal public park in Gaza ⁠City on Monday, an area densely populated with ​families displaced by Israel’s assault. Gaza’s health ministry says at least 1,320 people have been killed by Israeli attacks since a ‘ceasefire’ was signed between Israel and Hamas last October.

Israel signed a multibillion-dollar weapons deal with Greece on Monday, the largest between the two countries, AP reports. Israel’s defence ministry said the $3.5bn (€3bn / £2.6bn) export deal, dubbed Achilles Shield, is one of the country’s largest and includes a multilayered air defence system for Greece using Israeli technology.

Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency is reporting that Israeli artillery shelling targeted the southern Lebanese town of Houla on Monday. It also reported overnight Israeli attacks in the areas of Mansouri and Buyout Al-Sayyad, also in southern Lebanon.

Our latest story on hostilities between Iran and the US is here:

The US president, Donald Trump, has told Fox News’s chief foreign correspondent, Trey Yingst, that the US will respond to Iran targeting US military bases in Jordan overnight. “We’re going to hit them hard,” Trump told Fox News. “There will be a response,” he added, after Jordan’s army confirmed it had intercepted eight missiles early this morning.

Trump was send