Subscribed with another email? Logout and Login with that one.

Account subscription benefits alongside Premium Stories, Editorials, Opinions and more. Unlock these with Subscription

In this image received on Aug. 31, 2026, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a meeting with Iran President Masoud Pezeshkian, in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Photo: PMO via PTI Photo

In the first top-level meeting between Iran and India since the beginning of the war on Iran this February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 31, 2026) met Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian in Kyrgyzstan’s capital Bishkek and urged him to ensure peace and stability in West Asia and freedom of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz.

Mr. Pezeshkian blamed Israel and the U.S. for the conflict and requested Mr. Modi to “use India’s extensive contacts with various parties” and help the dialogue process.

“Reiterated our commitment to strengthening India’s long-standing friendship with Iran across diverse sectors. We want to expand and diversify our trade basket in the times to come. We had a discussion on the prevailing situation in the region. India will continue to support all efforts aimed at ensuring lasting peace,” posted Prime Minister Modi on X, after the meeting that took place on the sidelines of the SCO summit.

ALSO WATCH Watch: PM Modi’s SCO visit comes with key expectations ahead of the BRICS Summit and UNSC elections

The External Affairs Ministry said Prime Minister Modi called for “lasting peace” and “freedom of navigation and commerce.” Mr. Modi said he looked forward to welcoming President Pezeshkian to India for the upcoming BRICS summit, and emphasised, “…civilians and civilian infrastructure, including commercial shipping and seafarers must not be harmed under any circumstances.”

President Pezeshkian said his country had a “responsibility” to defend the Iranian people “from danger and insecurity and to create conditions necessary for them to achieve peace, tranquillity and security”. He said Iran was “focused on ensuring peace and security and resolving issues through dialogue and negotiations.”

Mr. Pezeshkian blamed Israel and the U.S. for creating “restrictions and obstacles” before Iran and said that “Despite the pressures and restrictions being imposed in an attempt to obstruct Iran’s relations with other countries, Tehran is ready to expand its cooperation with India across various fields.”

He referred to the talks with the U.S. on a ceasefire, assisted by multiple countries including Pakistan, and said, “The Islamic Republic of Iran has remained committed to the obligations it has undertaken within the framework of the agreements, but unfortunately, the American side has failed to fulfil its commitments. Nevertheless, we continue to work toward achieving agreement and understanding, and we believe that the continuation of war is in the interest of neither of us, nor of the region, nor of humanity.”

In June, Mr. Pezeshkian had invited Mr. Modi to the funeral of the slain Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei that was held in July. India was represented by a team that included the Governor of Bihar Lt. Gen. Syed Ata Hasnain (retd.) and Minister of State for External Affairs Pabitra Margherita.

ALSO WATCH Watch:Modi Meets Iran PM Pezeshkian: what is at stake for India? | Above the Fold | Aug 31, 2026

Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments.

We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.