Bangladesh says it is holding ‘positive dialogue’ on joining Makkah defence pact

‘Covid should have brought the working class and upper class together. It did not’: Jyoti Yadav

‘Homes without Windows’: India’s caste history becomes a personal story in Chandu Maheria’s memoir

‘Modi has made my life hell,’ says 15-year-old girl booked for remarks about PM during youth protest

‘Fake claims’: Great Nicobar lighthouse project study lists species found in Africa, Amazon

How Japan’s victory in the 1907 war against Russia strengthened India’s resolve for freedom

‘The heart is a sanctuary of liaisons and erosions’: These poems are an atlas of memory and movement

Why Tamil Nadu’s factories are death traps for migrant workers

Kuchipudi has lost its theatrical soul. An 85-year-old guru is trying to bring it back

Amrita Pritam’s two Delhis: The city she lived in and the city she wrote

More than two crore voters have been removed from the draft voter list for Maharashtra as part of the special intensive revision of electoral rolls. The draft roll has 7.7 crore voters.

Electors whose names do not figure in the draft account for 21.1% of Maharashtra’s previous voter base.

Those removed from the voter list were marked as either permanently shifted, deceased, absent, duplicate entries or placed under the “other” category, which includes those who refused to fill the enumeration form.

Pune district had the highest number of uncollected enumeration forms at 28.6 lakh, followed by Thane with 28.5 lakh, Mumbai Suburban with 26.5 lakh, PTI reported.

Those whose names are missing from the draft rolls can file claims and objections till September 30. Claims, objections and notices will be processed till October 29, while the final electoral roll is scheduled to be published on November 4.

Earlier in the day, the draft voter list for Delhi was also published. The names of 47.7 lakh voters in Delhi were removed from the draft electoral rolls in the national capital.

Maharashtra is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of the SIR.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

Since it began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.