Bangladesh says it is holding ‘positive dialogue’ on joining Makkah defence pact

‘Covid should have brought the working class and upper class together. It did not’: Jyoti Yadav

‘Homes without Windows’: India’s caste history becomes a personal story in Chandu Maheria’s memoir

‘Modi has made my life hell,’ says 15-year-old girl booked for remarks about PM during youth protest

‘Fake claims’: Great Nicobar lighthouse project study lists species found in Africa, Amazon

How Japan’s victory in the 1907 war against Russia strengthened India’s resolve for freedom

‘The heart is a sanctuary of liaisons and erosions’: These poems are an atlas of memory and movement

Why Tamil Nadu’s factories are death traps for migrant workers

Kuchipudi has lost its theatrical soul. An 85-year-old guru is trying to bring it back

Amrita Pritam’s two Delhis: The city she lived in and the city she wrote

The names of 47.7 lakh voters in Delhi have been removed from the draft voter list as part of the special intensive revision of electoral rolls. If the list is finalised, it would lead to the electorate in the national capital shrinking by about 33%, to 97.5 lakh from 1.45 crore.

Those removed from the voter list were marked as either permanently shifted, deceased, absent, duplicate entries or placed under the “other” category. It was unclear what the “other” category referred to.

Voters can file claims and objections against their removal from the draft list between August 31 and September 30. Read on.

Scroll’s SIR experience is a microcosm of what urban India is facing

The Supreme Court stayed a case against a Dehradun gym owner who had opposed the harassment of an elderly Muslim shopkeeper by alleged Bajrang Dal members in January. It also stayed the Uttarakhand High Court’s March order restraining Deepak Kumar from commenting on social media about the case against him.

On January 26, alleged Bajrang Dal members had come to the shop of an elderly Muslim man in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district, objecting to him using the word “Baba” in the name of his establishment. Kumar and another person objected to the mob’s actions.

Following this, an FIR was registered against Kumar based on a complaint by two persons who are members of the Bajrang Dal and the Vishva Hindu Parishad. Read on.

Trinamool Congress spokesperson Saket Gokhale said that the Central Reserve Police Force declined to share information about its ammunition log and details about the use of pellet guns allegedly by its Rapid Action Force during the July 20 protest in Delhi. Gokhale had sought the details under the Right to Information Act.

The CRPF, which includes the Rapid Action Force, is among the security and intelligence organisations exempted from the Right to Information Act under Section 24. However, the exemption does not apply to information pertaining to allegations of corruption or human rights violations.

Gokhale contended in his application that the details he sought on the use of pellet guns fell under this exception as they pertained to alleged human rights violations. The RTI response from the CRPF that Gokhale shared on social media said that the “allegations made in the application do not attract the exemption relating to violation of human rights”.

Commenting on the response, Gokhale said: “CRPF claims use of pellet guns on protestors in Delhi is NOT a human rights violation…In any civilised democracy, this is a shocking argument to make.” Read on.

The Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking that the percentage of ethanol blended in petrol be mandatorily disclosed at fuel pumps. The petitioner can approach the “competent authority” in the matter, held the bench.

Advocate Narendra Kumar Goswami had moved the court, saying that consumers have a right to know about the contents of the petrol they were buying. He had sought that invoices given to consumers should also mention the percentage of ethanol in the petrol sold. Read on.

The Supreme Court declined to pass an urgent order restricting the march that the Cockroach Janta Party has planned in Delhi on September 5. It could not be presumed that a law and order problem would arise because of the march, said the bench.

The political campaign had called for a peaceful march from India Gate to the Delhi Police headquarters, saying the Union government had failed to “honour its July 25 commitments” that led the political campaign to call off its protest at Jantar Mantar. Read on.

If you haven’t already, sign up for our Daily Brief newsletter.