Bangladesh says it is holding ‘positive dialogue’ on joining Makkah defence pact

‘Covid should have brought the working class and upper class together. It did not’: Jyoti Yadav

‘Homes without Windows’: India’s caste history becomes a personal story in Chandu Maheria’s memoir

‘Modi has made my life hell,’ says 15-year-old girl booked for remarks about PM during youth protest

‘Fake claims’: Great Nicobar lighthouse project study lists species found in Africa, Amazon

How Japan’s victory in the 1907 war against Russia strengthened India’s resolve for freedom

‘The heart is a sanctuary of liaisons and erosions’: These poems are an atlas of memory and movement

Why Tamil Nadu’s factories are death traps for migrant workers

Kuchipudi has lost its theatrical soul. An 85-year-old guru is trying to bring it back

Amrita Pritam’s two Delhis: The city she lived in and the city she wrote

The names of 47.7 lakh voters in Delhi were removed from the draft voter list as part of the special intensive revision of electoral rolls, The Indian Express reported.

If the list is finalised, it would lead to the electorate in the national capital being reduced to about 97.5 lakh as compared to the 1.45 crore before the exercise began in June, The New Indian Express reported. The names not included in the draft roll account for 33% of the Union Territory’s electorate.

Those removed from the voter list were marked as either permanently shifted, deceased, absent, duplicate entries or placed under the “other” category. It was unclear what the “other” category referred to.

Voters can file claims and objections against their removal from the draft list between August 31 and September 30. The appeals will be heard by October 29. The final electoral roll will be published on November 4.

While Rohini recorded the highest rate of digitisation of the enumeration forms at 83.4%, Tughlakabad had the lowest at 52.1%, PTI reported.

Delhi is among the 19 states and Union Territories where the voter roll revision is being carried out in the third phase of SIR.

More than 19% of the voters in Karnataka, 16% in Haryana and 10.8% in Andhra Pradesh were removed from the draft lists as part of the exercise.

In 2025, the first phase of the exercise was conducted in Bihar. It was extended to 12 states and Union Territories in the second phase in late 2025 and the first half of 2026.

Since it began, concerns have been raised that the revision could eliminate genuine voters from the rolls and even shape electoral outcomes, as Scroll has reported.

In May, the Supreme Court upheld the legality of the revision, but said that the exercise does not mean that the Election Commission can decide on whether the person is an Indian citizen.

Also read: Scroll’s SIR experience is a microcosm of what urban India is facing