The latest episode is partly a reflection of disagreements and lack of coordinated action in Brussels, say these academics.

HOUSTON, Texas: Europe is again embroiled in a contentious debate about immigration.

On Tuesday (Aug 4), European interior ministers met for an EU-wide crisis meeting on borders. This followed days of accusations, recriminations and in-fighting among EU member states over an incident in which approximately 70,000 people crossed from Morocco to the small Spanish enclave of Ceuta on the North African coast.

Many swam several kilometres in the Mediterranean to avoid the heavily fortified border fence – leaving 88 people drowned in just 48 hours. While Spanish police escorted most of the individuals back to Morocco with the help of Moroccan authorities, the European far right quickly latched on to the episode as fodder to further fuel its anti-migrant policies.

While this is not the first time thousands of migrants have crossed into Ceuta, the moment has sparked a new diplomatic crisis in the European Union, hearkening back to the 2015 “crisis” when migration likewise threatened to destabilise the bloc. As in the earlier case, the latest episode was not merely a result of misinformation or vast numbers of people looking for safety in Europe, but a reflection of disagreements and lack of coordinated action in Brussels.

Moroccans, especially in the north, have long felt discontent at the disparity between their local communities and the Spanish enclaves that are only a few kilometres apart. Many cite the lack of jobs or educational opportunities as reasons to migrate. The GDP per capita in Morocco was only US$4,153 in 2024 compared to US$26,774 in Ceuta. This inequality has led some Moroccan “mule women” to haul goods on their backs for sale in Ceuta under dangerous and even deadly conditions.

Under normal circumstances, several thousand migrants cross without documents to the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla each year. From January to April 2026, 2,582 people crossed to Ceuta and roughly 1,000 people claimed asylum.

Observers have offered various theories as to why that number spiked so high last week.

Pedro Sanchez, the Spanish prime minister, blamed trafficking groups that spread rumors online about a recent Supreme Court decision that Spain could not return people if they arrived by sea. When journalists interviewed migrants, many said that social media posts sparked hope that they could swim to Ceuta and eventually travel to Europe for work and a better life.

The Spanish court decision was wrestling with a difficult legal question: How and when can migrants apply for asylum when they arrive at Spain’s borders? This echoes debates addressed by the US Supreme Court in June when it supported the Trump administration’s pushbacks at the southern US border, arguing that migrants could not apply for asylum because they had not technically crossed into US territory. Of course, they were not in the US because the border guards had pushed them back.

The Spanish decision was more narrow: It agreed that migrants cannot be pushed back if they arrive by sea because there were no physical elements to the maritime border. If the government installed a floating wall extending Ceuta’s border fence into the sea, which it has now done, then pushbacks would be legal.

Nevertheless, Spanish police have escorted nearly all migrants back to Morocco, with only some individuals from non-Moroccan nationalities allowed to apply for asylum and some unaccompanied Moroccan minors allowed to remain.

Ceuta, along with Melilla, have been under Spanish control for four centuries, though Morocco considers the enclaves to be occupied Moroccan territory.

Beginning in the 1990s and increasingly throughout the 2000s, Spain took steps to strengthen the border fortifications between the enclaves and Morocco, primarily out of fear that migrants from sub-Saharan Africa would cross into Melilla or Ceuta en route to mainland Europe. Morocco has largely cooperated with the EU to block migration in exchange for large financial inducements and diplomatic benefits, though that relationship briefly faltered in 2021 over issues related to the Moroccan-occupied territory of Western Sahara.

In retaliation over Spain’s decision that year to permit medical treatment for the leader of Western Sahara’s Polisario Front, a banned pro-independence group, Moroccan border guards allowed approximately 12,000 people to cross into Ceuta over two days. The dispute was overcome only after Sanchez made overtures to Morocco, acknowledging its rule over the territory.

This time around, it is similarly unlikely that tens of thousands of individuals would have been able to cross without the complicity of Moroccan border guards. That led some observers to speculate that the episode was once again Moroccan retaliation toward Spanish positioning on the issue of Western Sahara. The Spanish prime minister visited Algeria, the primary political 