Juan Jesús Vivas has been briefing EU lawmakers on the ‘humanitarian emergency’ and says updated death toll now lies at least 100 people

Over in Brussels, Ceuta’s conservative president Juan Jesús Vivas is briefing European lawmakers on the situation in the city in the aftermath of last week’s migration crisis with Morocco.

He tells MEPs that the incident amount to “an invasion” defined as “an anomalous or ir regulation occupation of a specific place.”

He says 3,000 to 5,000 people migrants of the 80,000 who he says crossed the border still remain in the city, which “in no way allows us to say that our city has returned to normal.”

“We have a situation where the influx has led to a humanitarian emergency of enormous proportions, compounded by disturbances to public order and a high risk to public safety.”

He warns lawmakers that “our people feel sad, helpless, anxious, fearful and worried, and they have good reason to, because it is inevitable to wonder whether this will happen again at some point.”

Vivas also says that “it has become evident” that “our security and integrity are in the hands of a third country, Morocco, that does not recognise our sovereignty.”

He calls upon Spanish national authorities to “adopt whatever measures necessary to restore the normality,” including “immediate expulsion” of all people who crossed the border irregularly.

He also laments the death of some 100 people who died during the crisis.

Ceuta’s conservative president Juan Jesús Vivas told European lawmakers that the Spanish enclave’s residents were left feeling “sad, helpless, anxious” after last week’s storm on the border with Morocco.

He said that up to 80,000 irregular migrants crossed the border, and while most later returned to Morocco, 3,000 to 5,000 still remained in the territory (14:21).

EU migration commissioner Magnus Brunner accepted that the situation “has shaken” European politics and prompted concern about the bloc’s external borders among EU citizens, but insisted the integrity of the travel-free Schengen zone remained “preserved” as he praised Spain’s response to the situation (14:29).

Lithuanian defence minister warned that Russia could be considering possible “false flag” provocations against Nato countries in the Baltic region to undermine their support for Ukraine (11:18).

Seeking to reassure the public, the country’s prime minister, stressed that citizens should not be “additionally concerned” as the threat level remains generally stable (15:45).

German media reported that one of the Ukrainian planes near where the drone was spotted at Leipzig airport was carrying “military ammunition” transported from France and “likely intended for onward transport” (12:42).

Authorities in Hungary (13:24) and Romania (13:48) adopted further energy-saving measures as the countries are still gripped by unprecedented heatwave and drought, impacting their energy generation.

If you have any tips, comments or suggestions, email me at jakub.krupa@theguardian.com.

I am also on Bluesky at @jakubkrupa.bsky.social and on X at @jakubkrupa.

Meanwhile, Lithuanian prime minister Mindaugas Sinkevičius said there was no reason for Lithuanians to be “additionally worried,” despite earlier warning about a potential Russian “false flag” attack on the Baltics or Poland (11:18).

He acknowledged that “a certain level of threat exists,” but stressed that the country “has faced various hybrid attacks before,” LRT reported.

“The state is preparing and doing its work quietly. We do not explain everything because we do not want unfriendly neighbouring states to know too much,” he said.

He said the growing number of Russia-linked incidents in Europe – specifically referencing the drone incident at Leipzig airport earlier this week – shows that “as [Ukraine] war approaches its climax, there is often desperation.”

The cosy relationship between Washington and Rabat has long been flaunted by both sides, from Morocco’s announcement this year that it would be the first African state to join Donald Trump’s Board of Peace to the congratulatory message recently sent by Trump to mark King Mohammed VI’s 27 years in power.

The latest example landed this week. As Spain grappled with the aftermath of the sudden influx – and swift return – of more than 70,000 people into Ceuta, Morocco’s monarch confirmed he had named a $1bn highway flanking the disputed territory of Western Sahara after Trump.

The deepening ties have come under renewed scrutiny as questions continue to swirl over what exactly led to the deadly mass border crossing into the tiny Spanish territory in north Africa.

“I think there’s enough evidence to hypothesise or claim that Morocco is behind this,” said Riccardo Fabiani, the north Africa project director for the International Crisis Group. “But there was no clear trigger for this, and this is what is puzzling for everyone.”

While Morocco had probably not “masterminded” the surge into Ceuta, he said, its relationship w