President’s orders come month after supreme court struck down administration’s earlier attempt to place restrictions on birthright citizenship enshrined in US constitution

The American Civil Liberties Union is not impressed by the legal reasoning of Donald Trump’s new executive orders in which he is once again attempting to restrict birthright citizenship, just five weeks after the US supreme court struck a similar order he issued last year.

In a statement, the ACLU blasted the president’s attempted end-run around the supreme court decision and predicted that the new orders will not survive a court challenge.

“The Supreme Court already decided this issue: Birthright citizenship is guaranteed by the Constitution. No additional executive order can change the meaning of the Constitution,” the deputy director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, Cody Wofsy, said. “Any executive order that tries to rewrite birthright citizenship will meet the same fate as the last one”.

The executive orders signed on Thursday by Donald Trump, in which he tries, again, to undermine the guarantee of birthright citizenship enshrined in the US constitution reaffirmed by the supreme court just five weeks ago, is part of an obsessive campaign he has waged for more than a decade.

At a Republican presidential primary campaign event in Orlando, Florida in November 2015, Trump hinted that he had a plan to end what he called the scourge of “anchor babies”, a derogatory term for children of undocumented immigrants born in the United States as citizens.

“You can’t come into the country- you’re illegal, you come down, you sit down, you have your baby, and we take care of the baby for the next 85 years!” Trump said. “Everybody says, ‘Well, you need a constitutional amendment; it’ll take 15 years; it’ll never happen’. You don’t, you don’t. You need a simple act of Congress. You might not even need that.”

If elected, Trump promised the crowd at a resort near Disney World, “the anchor baby, birthright citizenship, it’s over, not going to happen.”

Three years later, as president, Trump said in a televised interview with Jonathan Swan just before the 2018 midterms that he planned to issue an executive order to instruct federal agencies that children born in the United States to non-citizens were not entitled to US citizenship at birth.

“It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment. Guess what? You don’t,” Trump told Swan in an interview excerpt posted online on 30 October 2018. “You can definitely do it with an act of Congress,” Trump added, incorrectly, “but now they’re saying I can do it just with an executive order.”

As Swan reported at the time, Trump’s claim that he could undo the birthright citizenship guaranteed by the 14th Amendment to the constitution was a minority view among legal scholars, but was supported by a then-obscure figure: John Eastman, who had argued for decades that the amendment granting citizenship to “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,” should be read to exclude the children of people who are not US citizens when their child is born.

Eastman later claimed in a 2020 Newsweek op-ed that Kamala Harris was ineligible for the vice-presidency because she had no right to US citizenship at birth, since she was born in Oakland, California in 1964 to non-citizen parents who were, “subject to the jurisdiction” of their native lands of India and Jamaica.

In the 2018 interview, Trump called birthright citizenship “ridiculous,” and falsely asserted that the US is “the only country in the world where a person comes in and has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen.” In fact, at least 30 nations grant citizenship this way. He also claimed that an executive order was in the process of being drafted.

Although that order did not materialize until the start of Trump’s second term, his obsession with casting doubt on the citizenship of children born in the US to foreign parents has had a clearly political element from the start.

After all, Trump’s original rise to political prominence was tied to his false claim that Barack Obama, born to an American mother and a Kenyan father in Honolulu, just two years after Hawaii became a state, might have been born outside the US.

Then, after Joe Biden picked Harris as his running mate in 2020, Trump repeatedly refused to confirm that she was eligible for an elected office open only to “a natural born Citizen.”

Instead, Trump called the question Eastman raised about Harris’s citizenship at birth in his Newsweek op-ed “very serious” and a potential “problem” for her. He also praised Eastman as “a very highly qualified, very talented lawyer” and called him “brilliant”.

Eastman, who went on to devise the fake electors scheme designed to keep Trump in office after he lost the 2020 election, and gave an inflammatory speech before the Capitol riot on January 6 2021, was finally disbarred by the Calif