"My crane operator, my partner, died five metres from me… The driver remained in the cabin. He also died."

Svitlana Halchenko winces as she remembers the Russian ballistic missile which exploded at work in Odesa, killing her colleagues.

Svitlana works as a warehouse shift manager at the city's main port.

Despite her injuries – she walks with a limp, pieces of shrapnel still embedded in her leg and back – Svitlana is determined to keep working.

Russia is ramping up its efforts to strangle Ukraine's commercial links to the outside world, launching attacks all along the country's Black Sea coastline.

From damaged port infrastructure to listing ships with bridges blackened and containers still smouldering, the evidence is everywhere. Nowhere more so than out towards the horizon, where the approaches to Ukraine's once bustling ports – Odesa, Chornomorsk, Pivdennyi – are almost devoid of ships.

See more of Paul Adams' trip to Odesa here on YouTube, external

Svitlana maintains a brave smile throughout our conversation, but her distress is painfully obvious. Her fingers constantly twist a tissue as she tries to maintain her composure and she gazes into the distance as tears well up behind her glasses.

"It's been very difficult for morale," she says with a deep sigh. "A lot of sirens, a lot of shaheds [drones], a lot of hits. People are very tense."

According to Ukraine's port administration, July saw 57 Russian attacks on civilian vessels, 22 of them at sea, and a further 67 hits on port infrastructure.

While there have been Russian attacks on international vessels before, they've never been so numerous or so deadly.

On July 19, a Turkish-owned cargo vessel, Golden Leo, was struck by three Russian missiles, killing nine Indian and Syrian crew members and a Ukrainian pilot.

The ship, carrying Ukrainian corn, sank off Odesa a week later.

According to the global shipping journal Lloyd's List, the Black Sea may now be the most dangerous place for shipping in the world - with July the deadliest month for merchant seamen, external since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began.

At his union's offices in the port city, Oleg Grygoriuk, Chairman of the Marine Transport Workers Union of Ukraine, says his members are suffering.

"There are a lot of veterans who already served their country," he says, "and they literally say that being in the port is more scary than being on the front line."

Odesa's proximity to Russian-occupied territory means that workers often have little time to react.

"A missile flies from Crimea within a minute," he says. "If you are sitting in a crane, you need three and a half minutes to get down and go to the shelter. There's literally no time to do that."

On a rare visit to one of the area's main ports, we saw almost no sign of movement. Hundreds of metres of berths sat empty and towering gantry cranes stood idle as a skeleton crew conducted maintenance.

The military authorities allowed the visit on strict condition that we neither name the facility nor film anything. Ukraine doesn't want Russia to know what has and hasn't been damaged or reveal details that might aid Moscow in further targeting.

Two damaged cargo vessels were moored nearby. Both had suffered severe damage to the superstructure, where the bridge and crew quarters are located.

"My heart is broken," a senior manager told us on condition we didn't name him.

"Normally there's a queue, even out at sea, waiting for a berth."

"There was a deal," he said, referring to the UN-brokered 2022 Black Sea Grain Initiative, under which Russia agreed to lift its blockade on Ukraine's agricultural exports. The agreement established safe maritime corridors to Odesa's main ports.

"They stopped the deal in the middle of 2023, but they didn't start attacking it until recently," the manager said.

Halfway through our tour, sirens sounded, forcing us to seek shelter for several minutes as a Russian jet-powered drone flew overhead.

Weary dock workers scanned their phones for updates until the all-clear sounded.

The manager said recent alerts have forced the port to shut down for 15 out of 24 hours.

Technically, the port is open, as are all the others in the area. There is no prohibition on commercial ships attempting to use them. But the risks are clearly too great for most shipowners.

"There is barely anybody who wants to call because there is a huge problem with people getting killed," says Andrey Stavnitser, co-owner and CEO of one of the largest ports in the area.

Stavnitser says Russia is almost certainly retaliating for Ukraine's recent, highly successful attacks on Russian shipping, including sanctioned vessels carrying oil, as well as other ships involved in ferrying supplies to Russian-occupied Crimea.

Using its own drones, Ukraine's Operation MoLoChKa (which roughly translates as "Moscow will fall through Crimea") has struck around 200 Russian vessels, bringing traffic in the strategic Sea of Azov to a vi