More than 300 people abducted in separate attacks in Nigeria have been rescued, the country's presidency says, in what it describes as the largest single-day operation by joint security forces.

The victims were rescued from the Kainji Lake National Park in Niger state in an operation involving the military, police, intelligence unit and the National Counter-Terrorism Centre.

Those freed include 163 people abducted during a February attack on the Woro and Nuku communities in Kwara state, where scores were killed. At least 145 others had been taken in Niger state.

It is not clear whether any suspects were detained in the operation.

The victims were receiving medical care at a military site before being reunited with their families.

"President Bola Ahmed Tinubu warmly welcomes the successful rescue of 308 Nigerian citizens who were abducted in different attacks in Niger and Kwara states," presidential spokesman Bayo Onanuga said.

It was "the largest rescue operation ever carried out" in a single day, Onanuga added.

Tinubu described the operation as a sign of improved co-ordination among Nigeria's security agencies.

The armed jihadists wanted residents of the village of Woro in Kwara State to renounce the Nigerian government and its constitution and instead follow their teachings, effectively attempting to impose a parallel system of rule and government in the area.

Amnesty International said many of the dead had been found with their hands and feet tied - some had had their throats slit, others had been shot dead.

The Nigerian government has blamed Boko Haram for the attack - the jihadist group has not issued any statement about it.

The rescue comes weeks after 44 pupils and teachers abducted during a school attack in Oyo state were freed after more than 50 days in captivity following a month-long security operation.

The series of abductions, including attacks in parts of north-central and southern Nigeria, has raised fresh concerns that insecurity is spreading beyond the country's traditional conflict zones.

'They sent a letter asking to preach. Then they massacred us' - Nigerians on jihadist attack

Dozens of Muslims 'massacred' in Nigeria for refusing to join jihadists, says governor

The kidnap gangs, jihadists and separatists wreaking havoc in Nigeria

Go to BBCAfrica.com, external for more news from the African continent.

Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, external, on Facebook at BBC Africa, external or on Instagram at bbcafrica, external