Karnataka HC scraps detention of school bus driver accused of being undocumented Bangladeshi migrant

Consider Opposition’s request for Amit Shah to be present in House, Rajya Sabha chairman to Centre

Jaipur: Principal suspended after deaf and mute students protest against poor infrastructure, food

‘I was free to move about as I chose’: When Rabindranath Tagore visited the Himalayas as a boy

Can the Indian Knowledge Systems be defended from pseudoscience?

Rush Hour: Tarun Tejpal gets 10-year jail for rape, Rs 557 crore spent on Modi foreign trips & more

An evolutionary model that predates Darwin’s natural selection is making a comeback

From the Hazrat Mahal biography: Courtesan, one of Wajid Ali Shah’s many wives, military strategist

Journalist Tarun Tejpal was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment for raping and sexually harassing a junior colleague in 2013. The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court has directed him to surrender within two weeks.

The bench set aside a 2021 verdict of a sessions court that had acquitted Tejpal.

He has been held guilty of rape by a person holding trust or authority, rape by a person who is in a position of control or dominance over a woman, sexual harassment and criminal force against a woman with an intent to disrobe her. Read on.

Rajya Sabha Chairman CP Radhakrishnan asked the Centre to consider the Opposition’s request that Union Home Minister Amit Shah be present in the House. “You can echo the sentiments of the Opposition to the home minister,” Radhakrishnan told Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju.

The Opposition has been demanding that Shah attend Parliament during the Monsoon Session for a discussion on the crackdown on youth protesters in Delhi on July 20. They have said that the home minister should make a statement about the use of excessive force by security personnel. Read on.

The Union government has spent Rs 557.5 crore on foreign trips made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi since 2021. The most expensive trip by Modi during this period was to the United States in February 2025, which cost more than Rs 25.5 crore, the Ministry of External Affairs informed Parliament.

While Rs 36.1 crore was spent on the prime minister’s foreign visits in 2021, the expenditure was Rs 55.8 crore in 2022. Modi undertook fewer trips in the two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic.

In 2023, Rs 93.6 crore was spent on his visits abroad, followed by Rs 109.5 crore in 2024 and Rs 187.8 crore in 2025. The government has spent Rs 74.5 crore in 2026 so far on six trips that covered 13 countries. Read on.

A decade under Modi: Aggressive foreign policy yields mixed returns, writes Nachiket Deuskar

The Supreme Court refused to make further concessions on the bail conditions imposed on Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the 2021 Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. He is the son of former Union minister Ajay Misra Teni.

Ashish Mishra’s counsel told the court that the bail terms prevented him from attending family events, including his daughter’s birthday celebrations. However, the court dismissed the plea, observing that there were no grounds to entertain it. Read on.

The management of a college in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj revoked permission for an event at which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was to speak with students about paper leaks and exam irregularities. The “Chhatron Ki Goonj”, or call of students programme, was scheduled to be held on Saturday at the KP College sports ground.

The college management claimed that an August 2025 Allahabad High Court order had restricted the use of the ground to sports and educational activities. Read on.

If you haven’t already, sign up for our Daily Brief newsletter.